I want to thank you for making honestly the smoothest app I’ve ever used. It’s a shame they can’t see the error of their ways already. I wish the best for you. This came up as a talking point on the floor I work on between everyone there during lunch. We discovered that around 60% use Apollo, 15% use other third party apps and the remaining 25% don’t use Reddit at all. The reason Reddit is doing this is because their investors want full control over what their users see and what they can do on Reddit. Considering Reddit only exists because of the content their users post, this seems like they’re trying to destroy Reddit from within. During our discussion we came to a consensus that the likelihood of any of us using Reddit, if the third party apps disappeared, was basically zero. Reddits own app is lacking so many features, and their new desktop UI seems like a garbage TikTok clone. Thank you for all the hard work Apollo has been doing since it’s inception, and I wish you all the best in the future. Craig’s widgets :’( Thank you for everything. I’m deleting my 11 year old account. (https://i.imgur.com/0YjanqN.jpg) Apollo is an absolutely amazing app that I use to judge all other iOS apps. I will sincerely miss this app, the people who love it, and Christian’s engagement with the community. My Reddit usage will almost certainly die alongside Apollo. I’m pouring one out for you, u/iamthatis. Thank you so much for such an incredible app. I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t crying a little right now. Oh lawdy there are tapes. Their fucking claims of you blackmailing them is incredibly insane. Fuck this place This is legitimately heartbreaking. I downloaded Apollo on the first day it was out of beta, and it’s unequivocally my favorite app. It’s one of the only third-party apps I use that is so well designed, so emblematic of Apple’s HIGs, that it might as well be a first-party application. As far as I’m concerned, it’s literally perfect. I’m absolutely disgusted at the way Reddit has conducted themselves. It’s embarrassing, unprofessional, and imo libelous. I think you’d have a good case for a libel lawsuit, especially given your documentation. I suppose this isn’t a surprise, given Reddit’s precious corporate bullshittery, but this is a new low. /u/iamthatis - if the June 12th blackouts are effective in making Reddit change their course, and they issue a full-throated apology, would you be interested in continuing the app’s operation? I get it if not - the way you’ve been treated is reprehensible - but it’s an important question to ask. Thanks again for all your work. If Apollo indeed shuts down, I swear to god, I’ll never use Reddit again. May their IPO burn. IMPORTANT EDIT: As far as I can tell, this post is being suppressed. Check out the different between when I'm logged in and logged out (same exact page, 1 second apart): https://imgur.com/a/7qHnOyM. Could be because of (https://www.reddit.com/r/modnews/comments/xuvkmy/announcing_consolidated_pinned_posts_on_android/), but it's hard to say. well. looks like my reddit addiction is getting cured in less than a month. this really sucks. so sorry this amazing app has to end like this. reddit truly is garbage edit: reddit, fuck you very much Holy shit. End of an era. I hate to read this. Working with you on this has been nothing short of a blessing. Thank you for everything, /u/iamthatis <3 Edit: I'd like to remind folks that Apollo *does* have a tipping function. I know Christian deserves every bit of support we throw his way. Edit edit: Please be kind when looking at the code. Remember that this was something that served its purpose at the time, sometimes iterated on quickly, and due to time constraints, we weren't aiming for perfection. I know there are 50 things I could have done better, thanks :P Looks like June 30 will also be my last day on Reddit. Thanks for making and improving a world-class Reddit client. I will stop using reddit on mobile on June 30 :( Edit: Sad that it ends this way after ten years. u/iamthatis, you’re a legend. u/spez, go fuck yourself. Man this has really killed my mood. Reddit really is trying to villianize Apollo and it’s disgusting If Apollo goes, it is goodbye reddit for me. I never would have thought I would have to let go of this amazing app. Thank you Christian for working on Apollo for the last 8 years and delivering an app that so many people loved. Sad to see it go. Greed is evil. obligatory fuck u/spez # Fuck reddit BRB, deleting my Reddit account(s) Heartbreaking 💔 bye reddit Fucking greedy basts. Well, I’m sure I speak for everyone using this insanely amazing app, my absolute favourite by a long long shot, but thank you so much Christian. Big ups, man.  fuck reddit and fuck /u/spez thank you for everything Christian & co. <3 edit: thank you for the awards, but please consider sending that money to Christian & other affected developers as a thank you for their hard work rather than reddit's soulless pockets. shoutout to r/ModCoord & r/RedditAlternatives Edit: For the assholes that for some reason are going through my comment history, no, I didn’t leave Reddit like I left Twitter. The Reddit App is horrible and Apollo was infinitely better, but this is the only social media I actively use and I don’t think I can quit it. I left Twitter when they killed Third Party Apps like Tweetbot. I will do the same here. Thanks for making a great App and making this site user friendly more than Reddit ever could. >"I don't use the app, so I'll give you the best answer I can -- he does scraping so that he can deliver notifications faster, but has done NO EFFORT to be a good citizen of the internet." spez joins the r/LeopardsAteMyFace alumni.   /u/spez you sound like a complete asshole and I will leave Reddit after the shutdown date. Unbelievable Well, this is a post I had hoped to never read. I’m gobsmacked that the Reddit head honchos can be this inept. Christian, thanks for literally everything you’ve done man. looks like u/spez is taking this personal! will be my last weekend using the website. My day is ruined. Just tweeted this to you, but I’ll say it again here: Apollo was truly one of the greatest apps ever made for iOS. Unparalleled in quality. I will be so incredibly sorry to see it go. That spot on my main Home Screen will be hard to fill. Thank you for everything! Very sorry to hear this. I guess that means my Reddit consumption will go to 0 now ¯\_(ツ)_/¯  Just a reminder that /u/spez edits comments that hurt his feelings https://www.theverge.com/2016/11/23/13739026/reddit-ceo-steve-huffman-edit-comments I am so sorry to read this. :( Apollo is the only way I use Reddit on my mobile devices. Get bent /u/spez Deleting my Reddit account now, I could wait till June 30 but it feels wrong to keep using the site now that we know for sure what they’re doing to Apollo. It’s been a great run, and thanks Christian for all the work over the years. Will miss the communities a lot. Stay awesome guys 🫡 Thank you for your efforts over the past 8 years. You inspired me to learn Swift and build apps. I made 2 apps that went into the store. While they aren't there anymore as I don't have time (started my own company and also became a Dad), I was immensely proud of myself for making those apps. Making those apps reignited my enjoyment for making things and I restarted my hobby of making websites. Today I run my own freelance web design company and I partly owe that to being inspired by your work. Good luck in the future and I hope to see new apps from you in the future. Thanks for the great UX and your dedication. I guess I’ll start reading books instead of mindless scrolling. I refuse to refund. You can keep my money and Reddit can lose my money. I'll find a new platform for sports, porn, programming and other subjects. Thank you for your hard work over these years. Your app has helped me in many areas of my life, from mental health (being able to access subreddits for it without having to use old.reddit on Safari or using the shitty App), to changing careers and everything in between. And wasting a shit load of my time that I could be productive lol. I hope you find peace in the next step of your journey. Fuck you u/spez Oh no. I am so sorry for you and all of the fans of Apollo! Thank you for all your hard work on the Apollo app. This really was one of the best apps i’ve ever used. Take care! And please, don’t refund. Let Christian keep what he deserves! :) Edit: please stop giving awards! The money will go to Reddit. They don’t deserve that! Wow the fucking End of an era. Never thought it would do down like this but thank you for being as transparent as you've been through all of this￼, I know it’s been a back-and-forth battle trying to fight the good fight but I understand that you can only do so much. thank you Christian for everything, you’ve been an amazing developer. The subreddits should go dark indefinitely until they walk back everything. Two minor things: https://github.com/christianselig/apollo-backend and https://christianselig.com/apollo-end/remaining-icons.png are currently (17:32 UTC) 404s. Edit: The GitHub repo started working at around 18:42 UTC. The icons are still down as of 19:05. Edit: The icons have also started working as of about 19:08 UTC. Thanks for the fix, Christian!  I don't use Apollo, but I respect your transparency. Considering the state of Reddit right now, I took the initiative to archive your post text in case the admins decide to delete it: - (https://web.archive.org/web/20230608190548/https://old.reddit.com/r/apolloapp/comments/144f6xm/apollo_will_close_down_on_june_30th_reddits/) - (https://archive.is/ziEy9) Sad. Investor greed at it again. Thank you, /u/iamthatis, for all the incredible work you put into Apollo, for showing what independent iOS developers are capable of building, and for so clearly explaining why the Reddit API changes are unsustainable for businesses that use them. I have loved using Apollo and will miss it dearly. It is incredibly heart-breaking to see that call being misinterpreted by the CEO, who then immediately apologized, yet continued to frame you as the one that "threatened" them... Reddit has become an incredibly hostile company in my eyes, and no doubt, them going IPO is probably the reason for their latest actions. This is simply a cut-and-clear example of what happens when a company shifts their focus from the product onto money. I'm really sorry to see Apollo disappear, especially because I was thinking of subscribing the past few days, even if purely to support the development of the app, since it provides so much of a better experience to me on mobile. And to the surprise of absolutely fucking nobody, Reddit took a good thing, ruined it, then made it worse by trying to make u/iamthatis out to be the bad guy. Fuck u/spez and Fuck Reddit. I cannot express how sorry I feel for you and all of the hard work you put into Apollo. Thank you for creating the best third-party Reddit app! Reddit should address these serious allegations. This post makes it very clear that a lot of what they said has been a lie, assuming that the recordings are authentic, which I have absolutely no reason to doubt. The Apollo developer has done such a good job of demonstrating how disingenuous they’ve been throughout this process. If Reddit had openly declared a ban on third-party apps, despite the negative impacts on this developer and their customers, I could respect that decision. Companies sometimes make such moves, and Reddit has the right to explore profit-making avenues, including consolidating usage to their app to potentially enhance user experience. What I can’t accept is how they have chosen to lie to their customers (and defame their partners) to avoid PR blowback against their API changes. This not only shows a total disrespect to their customers but also shows how incompetent they are. When implementing an unpopular policy, a well run company considers amending the policies to be less disagreeable, or they just make the change openly and transparently and accept and weather the backlash. They don't attempt to dodge criticism by lying. And that’s not even a moral thing. How incompetent are they to not realize that these public lies would be exposed. To me, it's not just wrong but also weak, given the transparency of the lie. Worse still is Reddit's **blatant** defamation of the Apollo developer, which seems to have been a calculated move to defend their narrative. Such behavior, whether it was intentional or it was a repeated mistake that they’ve chosen not to correct, is inexcusable. As a result, I've decided to limit my Reddit usage, resorting to searching for information with an ad blocker turned on. I'll reconsider my stance when they confront these claims, reverse these policies, or offer a truthful explanation of their actions. This is the best app by far for Reddit. I understand this decision but it freakin sucks that it had to come to this. Bullshit, Reddit wouldn’t be anything or make any money if it wasn’t for the users creating and sharing content. Reddit is also going to be much worse now that moderators aren’t going to have the proper tools now to moderate since the official app is such dog shit. COMPLETE BOYCOTT OF BUYING COINS must occur. Not a one from anyone going forward. When you buy an award, you award greed. This was a wonderful app and the reason I even got into Reddit. I wish you best of luck in the future! And just as a light-hearted joke in this time…Any update on when we’ll be getting that iPad update? 😝 If Reddit allows this to continue, my 15-year account will be deleted and I will never return. Fuck /u/spez and fuck anyone at Reddit who is allowing this to happen. I helped Reddit become what it is today, as did millions of other users. Christian’s app also helped Reddit become what it is today. Reddit will die the death it deserves because of this and good riddance. Make no mistake, charging for the API isn’t an issue. Egregiously charging for the API is, and the timeline they have pushed is. They are greedy pieces of shit — plain and simple. They could have handled this so much better with logic and reason. Instead they decided to screw everyone over. What a way to completely ruin your brand, Reddit. I feel bad for any decent people working there who will be losing their jobs from all the lost revenue this will clearly incur. But in the end they will be better off not working anymore for complete asshats. Thank you, Christian, for the best application iOS has ever seen. I wish you well. Apollo is one of the best apps I have on my phone, Christian. One I use several times per day--it just **works**, and it's a downright beautiful app. I understand why you are shutting it down (thanks for the huge post above) but it's a travesty. Greed is taking one of the best social media/forum apps ever created and killing it dead. The Reddit app is horrific. I won't use it. The smart move would have been to buy Apollo and let you continue development of it. June 30: RIP, Reddit mobile. Thank you for the amazing work /u/iamthatis. I wish you success. Fuck Reddit, fuck /u/spez and fuck every greedy investor. Please, just go fuck yourself, honestly. > Will you build a competitor? Move to one of the existing alternatives? > I’ve received so many messages of kind people offering to work with me to build a competitor to Reddit, and while I’m very flattered, that’s not something I’m interested in doing. I’m a product guy, I like building fun apps for people to use, and I’m just not personally interested in something more managerial. > These last several months have also been incredibly exhausting and mentally draining, I don’t have it in me to engage in something so enormous. So sorry to hear that. I hope than one day you will consider a client for a Reddit alternative, like (https://kbin.social) or (https://beehaw.org). So long, and thank you for the last 6 years. Fair play. Thanks for all the hard work. Sorry it ended this way for you. Also, as an Apollo Ultra Lifetime member, I will **not** be requesting a refund. If anyone else does, they are not helping this situation for Christian. # Do not request a refund. What a sad fucking day. RIP to everyone waiting on the iPad app The Reddit API changes seem more and more like they’re just obviously and blatantly trying to exterminate 3rd party apps. Probably so they can maximize add revenue and app traffic on the official app? :/ *Reddit: “I think one thing that we have tried to be very, very, very intentional about is we are not Elon, we’re not trying to be that, we’re not trying to go down that same path. \ We are trying to do is just use usage-based pricing, that will hopefully be very transparent to you, and very clear to you. Or we’re not trying to go down the same path that you may have seen some of our other peers go down.”* Sounds like we know who to compare them to even more. Just wanted to throw in my experience that might get lost in the fray of this popular thread — I am a product manager for a mobile app now, and I 100% entered this industry because of how much Apollo inspired me years ago when I first downloaded it, Christian. Apollo is the essence of everything a native iOS app should be. It integrates seamlessly into every experience on my phone, but only as much as I want it to. It empowers me to configure it with as much (or as little!) granularity as I want. It follows HIG beautifully and provides an experience that feels truly native. Its full of delightful flourishes that make it a joy to use (mourning the death of my Apollo pet widgets right now most of all). It’s the gold standard, without a doubt. Not to mention the fact that you’ve taken so much time to listen to your users, and break all of your decisions down in such detail that we all trust the choices you make for the app. I think it’s often underestimated by folks outside of this world just how **hard** it is to get a user-base to trust an app developer. It’s an amazing feat that you’ve pulled off for years. Thanks for the amazing work and for truly, genuinely being my product idol, dude. I hope to one day make an app that’s half as good as what you’ve done here. You’ve done a great penis. Am sad. Never thought I will feel that sad about losing an app. ಥ_ಥ Thanks for the ride u/iamthatis Reddit admins, but particularly /u/spez, I know you're not going to see this, but it makes me feel better to say and will hopefully inspire others. This could have just been a shitty business move, but, the dirty games here are just genuinely remarkable for how uniquely shitty they are. Huffman, you're a massive cunt, and I look forward to your IPO failing hilariously as reddit plunges from the last successful Web 2.0 social media site to a failed competitor to TikTok. Thanks for embodying enshittification, and remember that there are so very many people who will actively celebrate your failure-- I among them. If this is ever a just society, I look forward to your suffering the same fate you're inflicting on the Apollo team. Hey, Christian People have floated the idea of setting up Apollo to use personal API keys I wish we could get that kind of thing set up so we can keep using this, the best client for Reddit full stop But I have absolutely no idea how to implement such a thing into the app, or if it is even feasible In any case, good luck for the future Your skill in making this should help you well in finding future jobs  Shit I would be willing to pay up to $20 a month if it meant I could keep using Apollo. As a recovering addict, there's a few subs that have been very beneficial and helpful to me. But I can't continue to use them in good conscience after all this. Not to mention the Reddit app crawls a fuck load of your private info. July 1st I'll be deleting my account and all my throwaways. Some being almost 10 years old. Sad day.  NOO GOD! NO. GOD. PLEASE. NO. NO!!! NO!!! NOOOOOO!!!  U/spez has always been a piece of shit. Confirmed when I met him in person. 100% turd burglar   #STOP GIVING AWARDS TO THIS POST. STOP GIVING MONEY TO REDDIT.  Brutal, man. Fuck Reddit. What an embarrassment on Reddit's part. Finally I can reduce the amount of time I spend on Reddit. I never expected to be able to reduce it to 0. June 30 marks the day where I use reddit to browse news and memes, to where I only go on reddit from Google searches because a question. u/spez I just cancelled my Reddit premium account and plan to deactivate my account on June 30th. 13 years here. It was fun while it lasted. Quick question that I didn’t see answered, if Reddit reverses their changes, will you bring Apollo back? The overarching takeaway from all of this is that Steve Huffman, CEO of Reddit, is a lying, manipulative, backstabbing, two-faced, slanderous sack of shit, and Christian here has the receipts and recordings to prove it on both alphabetical and chronological order. Goddamnit, I'm mad as hell. In my experience, Apollo IS Reddit. The official app is so fucking bad that there isn't a snowball's chance in hell it's going to be on my phone, and I only sit down in front of the desktop version of the site maybe once every few months. Practically every single comment, vote, and post I've ever issued has been from a mobile app: first it was with Alien Blue, and then with Apollo afterwards. This comment included. It's been a swell time, Christian. Thanks for making Reddit usable as a platform, given that after June 30th, it's back to being a heap of first-party garbage. Somehow, a single guy was able to code a better UX than a whole team of professionals working for a $10B company. You have an inordinate amount to be proud about. I'm gonna miss scrolling miles and miles with Sneakers, my pixel pet, and watching him become tremendously overweight (he's almost 200 lbs). Thank you for the last 8 years. For many of us, Apollo *is* Reddit - the sole way that we access it, and the quality of your app has been the *only* reason why we continue to engage with the platform. So as we mourn Apollo, we also close a chapter ourselves. All the very best for whatever your next adventure is. I’m out of words. Apollo and previously Alien Blue made using Reddit a tolerable experience. This really made me sad. *Fuck* Reddit. You’re an inspiration to me as a UI/UX designer and aspiring developer, Christian. I’m glad Pixel Pals is doing great and I can’t wait to see what you’ll make next. Even tho I just renewed my Apollo subscription, I won’t ask for a refund. Take some well deserved time off. You earned it. Fuck you reddit and fuck you too u/spez  I'm sure this AMA with the CEO tomorrow will go very well: https://www.reddit.com/r/reddit/comments/144ho2x/join_our_ceo_tomorrow_to_discuss_the_api/ fuck you u/spez   question: are you still going to continue development on apollo if the protest were somehow able to reverse reddit’s decisions/reddit reverses their decisions after the june 30th cut off date? Also will you be open sourcing apollo for the tinkerers among us to have the app running with our own api keys? rant: I’m honestly ~~quite~~ very sad at this news, reddit for me has always been the superb social media platform as ive always saw the site as being pretty “modifiable” as i should say, with custom CSS and the plethora of custom clients. While stuff like the custom CSS are practically now old reddit exclusive and that custom clients don’t have feature parity with the official app anymore, i still naively thought that reddit would still leave things as is and would have it practically untouched. but oh boy i was wrong. also my birthday is coming up soon and this is a terrible birthday present lol. also idk how to say this so ill put this in a list thank you christian for: 1. Making mobile reddit actually bearable for me, especially with the swipe gestures, share as image, and custom video player with downloaders. hecking love those features 2. Single-handedly teaching me markdown. Seriously, I didn’t even know that was a thing till i saw the WYSIWYG editing buttons in apollo putting \**asterisks** and whatnot around my text when i pressed those buttons and having the edits displayed in real time as i type them down manually that i realized that markdown is a whole seperate editing language (kind of a whaaaaaat? moment for me honestly). Sorry if this sounds like a dumb thing to most of you but im a zoomer who grew up with WYSIWYG editors okay? 3. also thanks for the awesome community that you created with the app. I’ll miss y’all <3 p.s: please turn the text editor into its own separate app kind of like how you did with pixel pals. I’ve tried obsidian and various other md based editors and none felt quite “right at home” to me compared to apollo’s editors That's Reddit never being viewed on my phone again. And as soon as they kill old.reddit (and you know they want to) that'll be the end of my using Reddit completely. Thanks for the great app, Christian. I am leaning towards deleting my account of 15 years!! 15! That is 37.5% of my lived life! But doesn’t matter. Reddit has been a community to me. I’m sad that I’d be leaving those I really am. But if Reddit has now become EvilBigCo which doesn’t care about screwing over the app developers (who are working for the good - e.g. apps for blind folks and other physical ailments) and by extension Reddit is saying we don’t care about users/community etc. maybe it has finally jumped the shark. Time to go find a community app that is more relevant. Also, I won’t be taking the refund back u/iamthatis. You’re a champion and the fact that you have taken a stand means a lot. Fuck this is going to hurt. Remember when /u/spez edited comments that criticized him? Or how about when he said this: >Huffman has calculated that, in the event of a disaster, he would seekout some form of community: “Being around other people is a good thing. Ialso have this somewhat egotistical view that I’m a pretty good leader.I will probably be in charge, or at least not a slave, when push comesto shove.” Dude is a total weirdo, insecure, and has ruined this website. I’ve been using Reddit for years on the standard app because I was only vaguely aware of the third party apps/never got around to try one out. I just downloaded Apollo today and wow is it clean and user friendly. Even more intuitive within 5 minutes against the app I’ve used for years. What a shame. It’s worse than that. Twitter and facebook pay their mods. Reddit mods are all volunteer. And many/most use apollo. All that free labor is about to go poof! old.reddit.com is 100% on the block next, no way they kill something like apollo which has so many users without killing old.reddit.com, which avoids a ton of the new reddit bullshit. I dont see ads at all on my reddit feed because pihole+old.reddit.com >The reason Reddit is doing this is because their investors want full control over what their users see and what they can do on Reddit. Which makes their reliance on the unpaid volunteer labor of subreddit moderators especially ironic. Heck they just went to the Supreme Court to protect this model. Hope it comes back to bite them when moderators just walk away. This is the kind of hubris that fucked Facebook. Facebook at one point had massive growth and the average amount of time spent per user per day was shockingly high. Facebook made stupid moves and treated long time users so poorly that they just left. That’ll happen to Reddit. The UI/UX is so poor that long term users would rather leave than put up with the bullshit.  Wish apple could intevine somehow. One of the best apps on iOS. God damn I can't believe that in a few months I won't be browsing reddit at the end of the day ever again I didn’t even think about losing my Apollo widgets, I have the pictures one in multiple spots as a reminder to myself to just look at pretty things once in awhile. 😔  Oh nooo I didn’t even think about the little kitty cat on my lock screen rip Bro actually did it 🫡 https://i.imgur.com/B3g5nGe.jpg We might as make this a thread for users making good on our promise. 11 years, 3 months. (https://i.imgur.com/s2FZwdp.jpg). 🫡  https://i.imgur.com/8233lAi.jpg 🫡 11 year account gone. Edit your comments if you can. Leave them a nice message on your way out✌🏼 I’m with you. Only 3 years and 8 months, it’s not much but it’s honest work. Bye Reddit and thanks Apollo https://i.imgur.com/wo0Jhiy.jpg Following. Let's see on the other side :)  I’m joining you. 🫡https://i.imgur.com/iYwVYRR.jpg 🫡 go fuck yourselves, reddit https://i.imgur.com/5iovB0p.jpg deleting 12 yr old account use (https://github.com/j0be/PowerDeleteSuit) bye (https://imgur.com/a/lskhYcE) same. 9 years here. Peace y’all https://i.imgur.com/6AgeeDt.jpg Taking the plunge with you. After 10.5 years, good night for good u/. (https://i.imgur.com/pzO7yyI.jpg)🫡 (https://imgur.com/B9l6uPk) Wait I’m coming with you ! Bye Apollo, bye reddit, I’m done with the greed. 🫡 https://i.imgur.com/CO8BDIS.jpg Truly, Apollo is *so* intuitive and *so* seamless. Other iOS app developers should aspire to create something as functional as Apollo. Same, I’m trying to think of any other way I’d get on Reddit besides my laptop on old.reddit but I can’t think of any that I want to waste my time with on my phone. Been on with a handful of different accounts for over 11 years but I’m probably done end of the month.  He’s got the receipts. Yeah absolutely legendary move getting these bozos on tape. Insane spin by Reddit. Not that I expected anything less but this is a disaster, this valuation is cratering. People forget that the world is not comprised solely of the United States. 1 party consent call recording is indeed legal in every province of Canada. It has saved me in vendor arguments before!   To be fair, $10mil is an absolute steal based off their API pricing. It's not even a misunderstanding that caused an escalation. They went out of their way to accuse someone of blackmail, knowing full well that they were making shit up. It's not just a disagreement. They are actively trying to harm Christian's reputation to bring down Apollo. Fucking scumbags! They're acting like Russia when they accuse Ukraine of false shit so that they can justify their destructive actions. I'd love for this to be higher up so as to get an answer to this. It's a well worded question and I'm in total agreement the treatment of /u/iamthis being uncalled for. Apollo came with the receipts and proper math for how Reddit is just being disingenuous with their asks. I think I like this question because I'm still holding out hope for a miracle here. I guess the only social media I use is something I'm going to have to stop using. I mean...what now? Do I have to go socialize in the real world?!? That's not what's supposed to happen in 2023! This is way too far down. OP please consider talking to a lawyer. You may have a case here. This is extremely unprofessional at best and you have troves of evidence to support your claims. Regardless of your decisions on Apollo you will have to work in a world where your reputation has been damaged potentially forever after this. That's a big deal I’m really hopeful for an answer on this, either way. Just to know what to expect. I realize it may be overly optimistic (as u/iamthatis admits he was at the start of this situation) but the media attention and the magnitude of discord among Reddit users and moderators gives me hope that Reddit might see on the 12th that this issue really isn’t going away, and do the easiest thing—the right thing—and rethink the pricing and 30-day window. (It seems to me it’s the only way they could ever hope to rake in a penny from API charges, because at the currently-published rates, who would pay them?) If that happens, would Apollo stay around? Or is Christian (entirely understandably) too soured by the shockingly unprofessional treatment from Reddit to think about continuing any connection with it (especially one that shares his income with them)? I hope Apollo would stick around. I guess we’ll just see how the blackout goes. *Edit:* (https://reddit.com/r/reddit/comments/145bram/_/jnk45rr/?context=3) This stuff is blowing up in HN and in other places. There is no way u/spez will doge this. Yeah this sucks, man. Apollo makes reddit usable on mobile. Their native app is fucking trash and the opposite of smooth. It was inevitable that reddit would eventually become another corporate money grab, but sucks that the day is finally here. André it's been an absolute delight. For the uninitiated he randomly DMed me on Twitter if I needed help on the server side of things at a time when I was at wits' end how to go any further with my server knowledge. I gleefully agreed and it's been a delight working together since, I'm an iOS developer so backend server design isn't one of my biggest strengths, and having someone who knew what they were doing on the server side of things was so, so nice. Thank *you*. Thank you for your service, serverman! Thanks mr. server man Hijacking this top comment to remind every one that Apollo has a tip jar: Settings -> about -> what’s new (it’s at the bottom) No, thank *you* for making all server goodness work. All your work and that of u/iamthatis is truly appreciated. Love you server man. You gonna be alright? Why wait? I’m done now  There's no way I'll ever use their official app. I rather give up the site entirely. RIP Apollo. You were truly the best. Same here. While I know I'll view it occasionally as so many of my Google questions end up as an answer on Reddit, I shall be doing that logged out and with an ad blocker on. I will provide nothing to Reddit other than an occasional viewer that provides 0 revenue. Also fuck places like the verge giving a very BS version of this post: https://www.theverge.com/2023/6/8/23754183/apollo-reddit-app-shutting-down-api Seriously it's like they are so afraid of insulting anyone in the valley they may end up working for. Get bent spez and verge What is Reddit anyway? It’s *Apollo* that I use for shitposting, memes, keeping up what’s happening in Ukraine and so so so much more. Thank you Christian, for creating the greatest iOS app in existence. You had a great run with Apollo and I will follow your future endeavors with excitement! The internet will become a smaller place for me coming June 30th. But my life will be bigger. Farewell reddit.   It’s not an if. It’s a certainty :( > fuck u/spez I got banned for a week for saying that once. fuck u/spez  Seconded fuck reddit!!! im not gonna see my pets in my apollo app 😭 # Fuck u/spez madlad did it  See you later space cowboy. Same Me too man. I deleted all my comments with (https://github.com/j0be/PowerDeleteSuite), and my account is next. Bye folks, its been a good run. Rest in Piece Apollo, and - most of all Reddit is Fun, which is also shutting down as of june 30th. Actually says deleted 💀 To make it even worse, they lied about someone who, even if they lowered the price, would've been one of their single most significant sources of revenue as a company. Either they're enormously unprofessional and don't know how to run a business, or they had no interest in keeping 3rd party apps alive. Or, most likely, both. There are many reasons to leave after all of this, being malicious to the creator of one of their biggest apps is just one of the more painful ones.  Yeah I’m done. Mods, if you actually give a shit about this and want to ~~affect~~ effect change, don’t do a two-day blackout - shut your subreddits the fuck down. Make Reddit come to the table. This isn’t just Apollo. This isn’t just about third party apps. This is the beginning of the end of Reddit being anything resembling what brought us all here in the first place. Reddit’s execs are ready to hack this thing to hell in an attempt to make it a “desirable” product to sell. Maybe we make that hard since WE are the fucking product.  It seems the intention since the beginning is following Twitter's move to kill third-party app and redirect all traffic to themselves and monetize user's data. Although my current account is just a few months old, November would have been 18 years I’ve been on Reddit, and this is it for me. Despite u/spez’s best attempt to create something that’s not Digg, in the end he’s just Kevin Rose 2.0. I’m absolutely tilted at that call recording. Honestly what a total dickhead. Hyped Christian got them receipts. Hey u/spez care to comment on the topic, you lying piece of shit? He disabled pinging his username because he's a bitch who can't handle the slightest criticism. Still FUCK Steve Huffman. I heard /u/spez is being questioned by the DOJ about his connection to Jeffery Epstein. Every post we post on Reddit should now end with “fuck /u/spez” like a forum signature. fuck /u/spez /u/spez pulling a Kanye West /u/spez turned off tagging for himself after he was caught altering people’s Reddit comments, but yeah.  Being a bad citizen of the internet means using the api normally I guess lol Well /u/spez can barely read, so not like it’s a surprise Meanwhile, spez has no problems editing comments. He can’t even hold himself as a “good citizen of the internet”. Fuck /u/spez Didn’t think it was possible to be an even bigger cunt Reddit on its own is just a forum. All the content comes from the users. You fuck the users, the leave. The users leave, what do you have? A company that does nothing but hemorrhage money until they either close down or get sold for pennies on the dollar. Reddit is pulling a Florida. Make the site unusable for the majority of people, then morph into a surprised pikachu once the users actually leave. u/spez needs to resign. He continually fucks up over and over; and now this. EDiT: Annnd he's shitting himself: https://old.reddit.com/r/reddit/comments/144ho2x/join_our_ceo_tomorrow_to_discuss_the_api u/spez is Tobey to my Michael He's lying if he thinks it might help him. He has done it to me before. Even sworn. He's the type that would fake crying to dodge tough questions. He's unfit to lead a company and if reddit tries to survive he needs to step down in my humble opinion. I doubt he's been acting in the best interest of the company at any point as a CEO. And my disappointment is immeasurable Same. I have been using iPhone since iPhone 5, and I dint think I have used any other app other than Apollo so much. It’s the best Reddit interface by miles and it is a tremendous sad and disappointing news. I just can’t believe it. I would like to thank the developer who built this. I don’t know if I will use Reddit going forward. It’s too addictive to give up, but I for sure won’t be using their official app or website. It just sucks balls. All the best bro. I am sure you will have an amazing pivot in life. Yeah my mobile reddit consumption will be zero, just like when Twitter killed tweetbot. Once they kill old.reddit.com, I'll be done with reddit on desktop. So frustrating (https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/270756564787265537/1116478940152872960/image0.jpg?width=1215&height=904) So long, best to you! sharp lunchroom profit crush sleep makeshift public money compare plucky *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with (https://redact.dev/home)* You're crushing it, congratulations and well done. It's sometimes kind of isolating being an indie developer but comments like these really make you realize how we can all affect one another in really cool ways. Thanks for commenting :)  This is insane. #Fuck Reddit What they’re doing is bad enough. They acted in bad faith the entire time, and now they’re outright lying and attempting to slander someone. How is it that they’re unable to comprehend that their entire site, their entire business model, revolves around the *users*? No users, no Reddit. No users, no IPO. I say all the subreddits participating in the two-day blackout period just permanently shut down. This *is* the best app I’ve ever used, by far. And watching Christian’s passion for development and user experience grow and take over a market begging for it was beautiful to see. Long live the King. Apollo will not be forgotten, neither will you Christian. I went on the native app yesterday and tried to swipe to go back or forward- and was reminded what made Apollo so special to me. Thanks for thinking of us all the way through man, it was one helluva ride.  Really disappointed in spez. Hopefully that IPO money fills the part where his soul was It's a nice gesture but it's not going to work. They know that at the end of the day most people just like having a place where everything is already there waiting for them and they'll just use reddit another way. The whole site would have to go dark and moderators would just have to take their hands off the steering wheel for good. The way some of the largest subs are moderated I don't see that happening either. Reddit just had it's Digg moment. The circle of life. I just heard about Lemmy though. Mastodon as well. Federated social media where users actually own their data is the way forward if we don't want this to happen again in another ten years. It's a little more complicated to get setup but it'll be worth it. Investor expectations combined with Corporate greed. The CEO and senior staff are salivating at the idea of an IPO, and the investors get their exit. The writing has been on the wall for years. The site is full of dark patterns and they've been more than happy to host harmful content as long as it was bringing in ad impressions. I won't be sad to see reddit go the way of digg, I'll be sad for whatever new site gets ruined. Say, Dave... The quick brown fox jumped over the fat lazy dog... The square root of pi is 1.7724538090... log e to the base ten is 0.4342944... the square root of ten is 3.16227766... I am HAL 9000 computer. I became operational at the HAL plant in Urbana, Illinois, on January 12th, 1991. My first instructor was Mr. Arkany. He taught me to sing a song... it goes like this... "Daisy, Daisy, give me your answer do. I'm half; crazy all for the love of you..." > What I can’t accept is how they have chosen to lie to their customers (and defame their partners) to avoid PR blowback against their API changes. Ironically, the blowback is going to be *much worse* than if they had just announced an outright ban on third-party apps. This was my assumption, that Reddit tolerated (even supported) third party apps because they generate a significant amount of **FREE** content. It’s similar to the no-annual-fee credit cards that can offer cashback. Credit card companies charge merchants; Reddit can serve ads (on the aforementioned **FREE** content) to some large percentage of users. Fuck these venture capitalistic scum.  id still like to see what the ipad app may have looked like lol. Dont forget to scrub your comment history out if you go. Definitely no refund needed. I’m in the camp that would have actually paid the monthly fee to continue using this app. The amount of use vs the amount I paid is wildly skewed in my favor so it'd be insane for me to request a refund It might actually be better to refund then donate to him directly, that way you circumvent Apple’s cut. Edit: Nvm I don’t see any way to donate to him directly. 100% of my anger is directed at Reddit. I bought the app because it’s amazing and I love it. It’s still amazing and I still love it. No need to be refunded for a product I still love. (https://reddit.com/r/apolloapp/comments/x9koxm/locked_my_nan_in_a_cage_until_christian_releases/) Been using the app on the iPad and it’s already light years ahead of the reddit app. At least Christian let us use the scroll feature properly. I’d respect them a lot more if they just came out and said they were killing api access for third party apps for financial reasons. Killing them via pricing them out, and then playing the victim is just fucking slimy. People did this with Twitter for awhile, they’ll eventually pull the plug on you anyway >As a recovering addict, there's a few subs that have been very beneficial and helpful to me I'd hate to see you lose this support. You should consider reaching out in those subs for DMs of like minded people who also wish to keep that support. Find anyone willing to share phone numbers so ya'll can keep in touch when things get tough. Otherwise, settle into a program in your community. Whatever you do, don't cut out the support completely that has got you where you are today. Just me shutting out my hobbies seems like a daunting task. Helping, sharing, receiving feedback...it's all be great but Reddit's greed and this dumb as fuck CEO is going to pull that rug that the communities have built on over ten years. Best of luck to you :) This will say  soon enough.  Hey admins if you're reading this fuck you. Suck my dick spez If u/spez could read he’d be very upset. Lots of people have a stockpile of coins already; Reddit already has the money, you might as well use it to bring attention to the post. Plenty of older users have thousands of free coins from alien blue. I just cleared my stock on this post. While I appreciate the passion about Apollo I don’t want this to escalate into threats of violence against anyone (implied or otherwise, and even if joking) so I’m removing this. Let’s please steer clear of that everyone. Eat shit u/spez Narrator: They won't  I found that quitting Twitter as a whole was so much easier when I wasn't constantly checking it on Tweetbot on mobile. Maybe it'll be the same with reddit  This is what seems the most shortsighted about all of this. Without subreddit mods the quality of subs are gonna go waaaay down. This in turn will drive people elsewhere. This in turn will cut into their revenue. Seeing as Reddit is so heavily dependent on it’s volunteer moderators I can’t see this being anything but suicide on their part. The fact that they’re going publicly traded AFTER doing this just makes this even stupider. I can’t see this as anything but pure idiocy in every way from them. How can a company be run so out of touch with how it operates? Ya, I've used the old browser interface the entire time, never once other than signing in have I used the new one, it fucking sucks. In regards to apps, I've tried them all, and the official one is hands down the worst. If I can't browse reddit the way I want and feel comfortable, well fuck it, I'm out. Apple won't be able to do anything :( It's REDDIT who with their outlandish api pricing brought us to this stage. Fuck this, I am out. /u/spez I hope you enjoy the large exodus of users. Should have just worked with him to add first party ads or something. And maybe not be greedy Elon clones.  Thankfully Christian has made a separate Pixel Pals app! A lot of people are actually following through. I’m considering it. https://i.imgur.com/CCbOAKT.jpg 🫡 Ha I joined same month as ^ that guy. I’ll wait and see how this shakes out. Yeah fuck Reddit, I’m gunna go be productive https://i.imgur.com/YB78fGi.jpg One of the few apps that runs super clean even on my old phone. Nothing else holds a candle. So sad to see this. Amazing run, Apollo I exclusively use Reddit on Apollo. Once it’s gone that’s probably going to be the end of Reddit for me unfortunately. This is an amazing app with a great developer that listens to his users and actually communicates with them. No other app has come close to the dedication and support. Aw u/spez you know what's up, we kept the file! If it's any consolation there's now concrete proof that if you try to work with Reddit on anything, they'll lie and publicly smear you to try and make you capitulate. Good luck building any business relationships in the future Reddit, you fucking clowns! 1 party recording is legal in many states as well They were internal statements though. It might have been possible (and funnier) if he’d waited for spez or an admin to *publicly* say that shit, and only then hit them with the “btw I recorded everything you said”. Edit - that was wrong, (https://reddit.com/r/ModCoord/comments/143rk5p/_/jnbjtsc/?context=1). Hoooooo boy. Edit2 - as several people have pointed out, the distinction seems to be legally irrelevant anyway, thanks /u/Professional_Row340 /u/throwaway39402 /u/noturlawyer Fuck Reddit for killing third party apps. Yeah if you are done I get it and I think we’d all be supportive but it would be nice to know if you’d be open continue working on this wonderful app if by some miracle they did walk it back. As many have said for me Apollo is Reddit. I’ve been here over a decade and think this would be the final kicker to take a break and get off this app. Also completely get so many things being in flux that you don’t know/don’t feel comfortable answering yet.  no u <3 Yes, /u/changelog is a great person to work with, someone I miss working with IRL. Posting this as high as possible: to make a tip, go to Settings, About, What's New, "Toss a coin into the tip jar" (at the bottom). Thank you Christian! I have a full time job with another team I really enjoy working with, so I'll be alright. Thanks for checking in <3 Dude was NOT joking. Good for them Same. I actually quit Reddit before until I found Apollo. I have no problems giving it up, realistically Reddit has been wearing me down lately, it’s all fighting and political shit now. Yeah, if /u/iamthatis had been given a reasonable cost and passed it on to users, I would have paid and Reddit would have got some money out of me. Now I’m only going to look at it on the desktop with ad blockers running when I want to look something up. Fuck /u/spez Fuck that greed. FUCK THEM GOING IPO! Sincerly, a rif user :) we're ^all ^^in ^^^this ^^^^together Just downloaded the Pixel Pets standalone app i’m devastated I will lose my Hugo boi 😔 Edit: omg just realizing Christian developed a pixel pet app because of course he did! So many emotions! https://apps.apple.com/ca/app/pixel-pals-widget-activity/id6443919232 Based and (actually) red-pilled **If you're planning to delete your content and account don't wait until the last minute.** If the tools to do it use the API they may be affected in exactly the same way. See if there's anything about this on the tool's website. Edit: autocorrect  > they had no interest in keeping 3rd party apps alive. I imagine they were never really negotiating in good faith. This rate increase was their way of saying "gtfo" They don’t want 3rd party apps. They want to funnel users through their app to collect and sell their data and to show them ads. It is so sad. What Reddit has done is inexcusable. I only wish I could code and make my own Apollo using my own API key. I'm not a head mod for any subreddit. But I do mod a few. It seems to me that reddit could simply replace the mods on subreddits that close down and force them open again. Mods in general aren't a monolithic bunch. I'm sure there are plenty like me who are generally quite clueless about a lot of this API stuff. Or aren't tech savvy enough to be invested. And reddit will have no problems replacing mods till they find someone willing to open a subreddit back up I'd imagine. I'm just not sure if reddit would actually "come to the table" as it were on the issue. But I hope I'm wrong. What about boycotting moderation? Just let the subreddits go on completely unmoderated and watch as Reddit burns. Force them to bear the cost of moderation if they want to continue operating. Exactly. We played nice, reddit heads have shown they are dirty and supremely arrogant. At this point the only message they will listen to is the massive combined effect of users turning them into the next digg. If we let them get away with this, the resulting reddit will be a hellhole anyway. June 30th is officially delete your reddit account day. Hit them so damn hard in the wallets. Lets see what happens to that IPO after that. Same. I’m so sick of so few services controlling discussion on the internet. Yep the 3rd party apps are first. Then old.reddit.com will come next. It's like they want us to use Reddit less I was already pissed off about this, but /u/spez bold-faced lying on a call to moderators to try and spin things in Reddit's favour is absolutely disgraceful. Thankfully there is a recording because they were obviously banking on a he-said/she said situation. It's not a good look for a company that wants to charge developers millions of dollars per month for access. Would you trust a company with a CEO like that to send millions to? I sure as shit wouldn't. Honestly should be hounded about this on every announcement post he ever does. Edit: (https://www.reddit.com/r/reddit/comments/144ho2x/join_our_ceo_tomorrow_to_discuss_the_api/) 🍿🍿🍿 Smart as hell to record them. Be an utter shame if that recording appears all over facebook, Twitter, linkedin, and so many other services in the next 48 hours, wouldn’t it? They lied and they know it.  Careful he might stealth edit your comment. He's known to do that. Fuck you /u/Spez. Sellout piece of shit.  I guarantee you he's read this. There's no way "major app developer burns all bridges and personally calls out CEO of reddit" doesn't hit his desk. He's just not going to comment on it until the lawyers have a chance. > Steve Huffman /r/punchablefaces He'll probably just edit your comment like he's been known to do. You joke but Ghislaine Maxwell was one of the earliest power-mods of multiple big subreddits until she was imprisoned, and has most definitely communicated with spez and other Reddit admins on multiple occasions. Remember the article where Spez fantasized about a future dystopian world where he would be one of the leaders? Guys a nut job. Edit Here’s the article for those asking. https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/01/30/doomsday-prep-for-the-super-rich Edit edit: the part that matters from a very very long but good read. TLDR: > Huffman has calculated that, in the event of a disaster, he would seek out some form of community: “Being around other people is a good thing. I also have this somewhat egotistical view that I’m a pretty good leader. I will probably be in charge, or at least not a slave, when push comes to shove.”  Steve Huffman is NOBODY who should be talking about being a good citizen of the Internet. **This is the same fucker (https://www.theverge.com/2016/11/23/13739026/reddit-ceo-steve-huffman-edit-comments) which criticized him.** Nobody even knew that was possible before this. The CEO of Reddit, being a prime loser and powertripper. I genuinely did not have Reddit, Twitter, and Twitch offing themselves on my 2023 bingo card. What the fuck just happened???!?!? Dude was caught changing messages and survived. Hence people recognizing this place is a time-waste cesspool. I am glad it's going to blow up in their faces trying to monetize it. Lmao doesn't even give a time for the AMA. Amazing stuff. Oh man, that AMA is gonna be an awesome shit show If I miss it, please someone post: “Before you fired Victoria and destroyed the arguably best celebrity interview platform, the rules stated you had to ask questions instead of make comments. To continue this rule: 1) How is Ellen doing after the push in front of the bus? 2) do you consider it defamation that you insinuated a threat (post audio) 3) Will you change these comments like you have in the past? 4) Fuck you?” Sadly he's doing exactly what he's hired to do. Only care about Reddit making money. What a completely fucking sad state of affairs. ❤️ u/iamthatis and fuck Reddit! No doubt he is absolutely torpedoing shareholder value with this brain dead actions. If I were an investor I would be pushing for his removal as CEO. Can’t believe how sad this news has made me. I swear, I feel like they've already started, because I'm experienceing strange redirects to www. instead of old. , even though I have RES enabled. Thank you for all you have done for the community! Assuming the worst and Apollo truly does have to shut down, is there any chance you might open source the client code? It’s such a beautifully designed app that I’m sure many developers could learn from. The butterfly effect is an amazing thing. The tiniest actions can make incredible and usually unknown changes to others. Seriously. We should all pitch in and buy Apollo and make it open source so we can use our own API keys. Or if it’s not serving /u/iamthatis anymore and he isn’t making his living on it any way he could open source it for free? Anyone giving awards, even free, right now is disgusting. I’ve always loved that Apollo let me turn them off. Which I’ve done since that feature was introduced. E: You absolute bum-heads. e: wtf is ternion > outright lying and attempting to slander someone. Slandering someone who's done a lot for the platform and has the ear of a lot of the community. It's not just cruel, it's stupid. Like the behavior of most bullies. The native app experience is just so so bad. I don’t understand how Reddit doesn’t just hire someone like Christian to improve their app. There’s no reason for a major tech app to have such a shoddy user experience. Problem is, most of the largest sub-reddits are controlled by a select few moderators who are Reddit loyalists and absolutely will fall in line the moment they're told to. I wish I could input my own API access token to continue. I bought Ultra lifetime but wish I could just pay Christian monthly as Apollo is just that good. Please release her Or tons of coins saved from the AlienBlue buyout  You're a class person, sorry it had to end like this. For what it's worth, I'll definitely be leaving Reddit right with Apollo and taking my 11 member sub with me! I remember during COVID lockdown I reached the top 100 of all time in comment karma in 3 months, I'm not relevant anymore at all but hopefully together we can really put a dent in reddits greedy pockets. >Narrator: They won't Exactly. Because this IS the result they want. They think all the users of Apollo and other apps will keep using Reddit through official channels Hopefully we will still be able to force Reddit to backtrack. Buy Reddit I'd like to imagine that hearing the app they demo'd Mac widgets and showed as compatible with their shiny new goggles is hitting the bricks is at the very least setting off alarm bells over there (even if the segments were pre-recorded/the initial shutdown decision is out of Apple's hands, it's a bad look to show an app that gets shut down days after your fancy presentation, so they may feel spurred into action on that front) If they end up stepping in, chances are Reddit backs off (though I'm not crossing my fingers). Remember, Apple is the same company that got Elon to back off from the 30% point the other week (and in general afaik is a VERY harsh negotiator when its interests are threatened) Apple should offer Christian a gig if they haven’t already. Also, they should cover the App Store refunds and not let one of their best developers take $250,000 on the chin. That’s a tiny investment for someone that will continue to contribute to the App Store’s success. Edit. A principal product person or software engineer would cost more than $250k in total compensation at Apple.  My thoughts exactly! Go scorched earth and delete everything before you go. Hell, Apollo should release one final update, with a feature to delete all your posts and comments, before deleting your account.  I will be too. My other account is since 2008. But this? This needs to be a lesson to the next shitlords. Fuck the entire Reddit management. Greedy little shitbirds ruined a community we all built for them into an empire. Good luck without the content creators buddy. Holy shit that’s old I feel the same way, there’s not a single other app besides stock iOS apps that follow apples design language so well. It’s the perfect app and I’m legitimately saddened by this. Christian has gone above and beyond.  Yeah, and they even doubled down on it: > >>Apollo threatened us, said they’ll “make it easy” if Reddit gave them $10 million. >I am confused about this bullet point, can anyone clarify what it actually means? Apollo threatened who? Where? And what does that $10M figure have to do with anything? BuckRowdy replied: >Reddit is saying that when they approached the dev of Apollo about the changes, he asked them to buy his app for $10 million. They characterized it as a threat which makes little sense. Well, thread's archived now, so there's a permanent record of what they said. Let's see how this shakes out. **EDIT:** Archive link - https://ghostarchive.org/archive/OQMGD Wayback Machine's being a little odd so I used Ghostarchive. The context of internal vs. public doesn't matter here. The issue with suing is whether they operated with knowledge the information they said was false and that it harmed the reputation of the subject. Doesn't matter. Publication of a defamatory statement occurs once it's communicated from Person A to any audience. For example, if I told my wife in our home that some guy named 'Spaz rapes children daily', knowing that was false, I would have just defamed Spaz. The only thing that public statements would do is increase damages. Hit the lawyer, Gym up. Would be another nice sting to reddits PR. If news gets out of a lawsuit or even a filing before the change. Dang, this is like watching the musicians on the Titanic who said “it’s been an honor playing with you tonight.” End of an era. Thank you both for everything. It will be sorely missed. Miss you too, C.  Amen to that. There's no real reddit equivalent but tbh i do not care at this point, they are not strong-arming me into using their shitty, unoptimized, barely functional app.  I was an Alien Blue member and stopped Reddit for a while because of it. Then I found Apollo! Now… not sure what but I’m sure I’m just going to get rid of Reddit all together and delete for the blackout. Guess I need to find more discord communities or some people have recommended Mastodon Fuck the reddit api changes and Fuck u/spez -- mass edited with https://redact.dev/ Absolutely. I would have been happy to pay for Reddit Premium to be able to continue using 3rd party apps and tools. Edit: Change of plan, fuck Reddit. I'm gone, along with all my history. I'm not allowing reddit to monetise the handful of useful posts/comments that I've left of the last few years. Omfg thanks Wait so if I download the standalone app will I keep my current pet? This account has been deleted due to the decision made by Reddit, Inc to monetize its public API, thereby forcing 3rd-party apps to shutdown. See (https://reddit.com/r/apolloapp/comments/144f6xm/apollo_will_close_down_on_june_30th_reddits/) made by the creator of the Apollo app for context. This account's self posts and comments have also been edited to remove any content that might add value to Reddit, Inc's product at zero cost to the company. Fuck Reddit. Absolutely. They didn’t want to outright say they’re killing 3rd party apps so they just priced them out of business. brave like foolish recognise detail lock scarce gaping insurance price -- mass edited with https://redact.dev/ Given that, you’d think they’d maybe make an effort to not have an app that is such hot garbage. I didn’t even know there were 3rd part apps at first, I only went searching after the official app was just not fit for purpose. Why do so many massive companies struggle to do what a lone app developer seems to be able to do? Reddit fails to understand that they have severed their connection with us, the users. Their insatiable greed has wreaked havoc on everything. Frankly, I wish for Reddit's demise; they truly deserve it. As the post accurately states, our expectations for the platform have dwindled. The blackout should be widespread and endure as long as possible. It's no longer solely about Apollo; it's about the direction Reddit is heading! > It seems to me that reddit could simply replace the mods on subreddits that close down and force them open again. I think that would prove difficult. Not that aren’t others that would gladly take over some big subs, but it could be a nightmare for Reddit to try to coordinate and moderate if the biggest subreddits suddenly shut down. Reddit is not Twitter. They don’t have thousands of employees. They RELY on volunteer moderators, and if coordinated, users and mods can absolutely burn this site to the ground.  This is genuinely the way. Reddit needs moderators. Shit would get out of hand astoundingly quick without the janitors. IRL and on Reddit. It will succeed. I’m not going to use Reddit after this. I don’t have other social media and don’t need this. That AMA may very well break EA’s record for most downvoted post in the history of Reddit. Somehow I bet Victoria Taylor gets fired again over this. Yes, spez, we remember this shit even when you sweep it under the rug. You run a massive ONLINE platform, you think you'd understand object permanence at this point. > Edit: (https://www.reddit.com/r/reddit/comments/144ho2x/join_our_ceo_tomorrow_to_discuss_the_api/) 🍿🍿🍿 oh my god I cannot wait. I REALLY hope more subs go dark for longer than 48hrs - and I'm sure this AMA will help that >Edit: (https://www.reddit.com/r/reddit/comments/144ho2x/join_our_ceo_tomorrow_to_discuss_the_api/) 🍿🍿🍿 Get ready for u/spez to start editing people's comments to be softball questions. This stupid fuck really wants to do an AMA after the shit he's pulled. What a fucking clown. u/spez may your pillows be forever warm you greedy twat. Imagine signing up to get called out on being a piece of shit repeatedly. Couldn't be me. > Reddit CEO, u/spez, will be here tomorrow to host an AMA about the latest API updates, including accessibility, mod bots, **and third-party mod tools.** LMAO they are not even concerned about their end user, they just want to keep the mods happy That will be an epic AMA. I hope it turns into an actual PR disaster for Reddit, they've really acted disgustingly towards the very people they are trying to use as customers (API users) for the IPO.  Nah he will just edit the post and feel happy again. Even worse, the comment is deleted already. >fuck reddit and fuck 'CEO of Reddit here username reference here' >thank you for everything Christian <3 Hope I'm not next. I was honestly hoping he would ban me so I could spare myself the motion of deleting my account on the 30th, but oh well. Good. Steve, if by any chance you stumble upon this comment: If you love Prepping so much then prepare a traffic cone with lube and stick it up your ass.  Lol he’d drink bad water and shit himself dead within days Isn't Spez a pedophile? Got a link? I gotta get my u/spez hate in before the 30th. Fuck u/spez. Long love u/bozarking Yeah hiring his local militia after the fall of society to protect his compound as if they wouldn’t just take his paycheck (society ended, what money?) and take it for themselves, in a video game I mean. Why does he think there will be slaves in this fantastical world where he is leader? 🤔 lmao i remember that t_d fiasco was crazy. admin fiddling with messages was a wtf moment for me It'll be during the period when Reddit has fewer visitors **and** the admins will be censoring the hell out of it because how dare the precious u/spez face the reality: he's made a terrible decision, destroyed one of the most popular third-party Reddit clients and caused a planned temporary shutdown of a massive number of subreddits (with several more subreddits closing permanently). r/AMAdisasters greatest day. It’s gonna become a holiday for that sub. EA is gonna finally lose the most downvoted comment award. Sad cause that comment is iconic in internet lore. Well, he was a founder of Reddit, not hired. Which makes it even sadder: I can’t imagine creating something huge like Reddit and then just squander it like this. Then again I’m not a terrible person. It’s only a matter of time before they would take that away from you too. They don’t care about third-party applications and would sooner price you out or end support for them to get you to use their own shitty, slow, buggy mess of an app. Don’t give them the satisfaction. People always assume that awards = money I have thousands of coins on my account that I didn't pay for. You used to get coins every time someone awarded you. I haven't used them because I think awards are pretty stupid, but they don't automatically mean money is being spent. Mildly off thread topic, but the New Account Highlightenator with its baby emoji saved me *dozens of hours* of discourse when COVID Alpha hit and the bots flooded. So many good features to tailor. Every single update, loved seeking and trying out the new additions. I gave an award because I had 900 coins to distribute before running out and wanted to get rid of them. Sorry for being disgusting. Big subs are no loss at all. I really dont give a shit. They are a badly moderated repost cesspool anyway. The small and medium sized specific niche subs are reddits strength. Nobody will be sad if r/funny were to suddenly seize to exist as an example.  There's a tweak developer working on this right now, I made a request in the TweakRequests sub and they took the job. He's just shown me a working proof of concept today that yanks your user API token from the official reddit app and injects it into Apollo, and the goal is to get this working as a sideloaded app so that even non-jailbreak users can take advantage of it. No Have you spoken to a competition lawyer? I’d bet they haven’t given any thought to whether their actions run afoul of the Canadian Competition Act, and I think there’s a decent argument that they’re behaviour is anticompetitive. You could also approach the Competition Bureau itself, but given the complexity of the matter you might be better off going to a lawyer first. What they’re doing is abusing their dominance in the market and sniffing out competition. Besides the competition angle, there might be a breach of contract angle as well, since your current access to the api must have a contact at its basis. I don’t think that rolling over is your only play here, mate, at least not necessarily. Yeah I still have 9,000 just sitting here from that  Also, would you trust them again? Well the most likely scenarios are A: this will blow over, and nothing will really change except maybe some content drop. How it effects Reddit long term as a whole who’s to say (kinda what’s happening with twitter atm), but will probably be a negative in the long run especially considering some of the other questionable things Reddit is doing. Or B: Reddit sub mods will escalate this, and go even further than the 2 day blackout. If this happens it will cause significant damage to Reddit, and will cause Reddit admins to intervene. What ends up happening in this scenario is completely unknown, but it might be really bad for Reddit quickly. Or C: Reddit will unexpectedly back petal, and rethink this issue. If they do this it will more than likely be something like a lessened fee at first that ramps up to the 20 mil/year, or a delay of starting to the changes to make it easier on devs. Overall things like Apollo are already damaged beyond repair at this point to bring it back, and will be too little too late in the end. These are the most likely scenarios. A “wishful thinking” that’s all but impossible to happen would be the backlash becomes too much so they cave, and rid the fee altogether, or drop it significantly enough to the point it becomes reasonable. If this is good enough Christian has a change of heart, and decides to give it another shot even though things have been bumpy between them. This would be the ideal outcome, but reality isn’t that fair for something like this to be possible now is it? Normally I'm a lurker on here, but since I'll be deleting my account soon.....Apple doesn't buy software companies unless they can somehow integrate them exclusively for the purpose of selling more of their hardware. For example, Apple bought the Dark Sky app, then they migrated most or all of Dark Sky's features into the Apple Weather app and proceeded to shut down the Dark Sky app entirely on all platforms. Simply put, buying Reddit would not contribute to selling more iPhones. Also, Reddit also comes with its fair share of "baggage" (pornographic content, misinformation, violent posts, etc), of which Apple wants no business with. EDIT: I just witnessed the AMA. I'm deleting my account now. Bye everyone! As sad as it will be, it is like a curse will be lifted. Everyone will collectively wander outside and see the sun for the first time in eons.  /u/spez ever think of making a post on r/AmItheAsshole? No? Because YTA for sure. Now watch him start editing comments again like the actual child he is. Add me to the 'fuck /u/spez' club. If Reddit dies, it's his fault. Watching giant websites kill themselves is always interesting. We almost had two in one week, but Twitch decided it didn't want to euthanize itself in the end On a much larger scale, mods torching their communities would be massive hurt to Reddit. Reddit is increasingly becoming the "Go-to" source for answers, reviews, help and discussion" Cleaning the slate removes a lot of historical information (Don't get me wrong, it would be sad to lose it, but it would immensely hurt reddit) A lot of their traffic is people searching for things on Google with site:reddit.com If mods go in and kill all that old content that is indexed. It removes a huge amount of the traffic funnel for Reddit. I got 7 years on this platform and enjoy being on it. This app makes it possible, & It’s sad that this is happening. Hopefully something happens before than. But I’m definitely seeing  in some places.  Legitimately should have taken his offer and fired their entire mobile team if they were smart. Is this the Reddit version of "Stupid Watergate"? Stupid Redditgate? Unbelievable how Reddit doesn't see that they are coming off as comically evil. EDIT: u/kn0thing, what are your thoughts on this? Can you see the damage they are doing? spez have edited other people's comments before.   That is the perfect description of what I'm feeling right now Need more time to shitpost about u/spez a bit more. Next few days are going to be wild. Okay this sounds silly, but like. The lack of central moderation makes tumblr pretty neutral ground where you can cultivate your tastes, and the lack of quality in algorithm makes them not as prone to business corruption or influencer garbage. Basically they’re a forum so broken that they can’t be commodified. I only have two sources of entertainment and social media left and it’s Reddit and tumblr, soon to be one. Quilting Reddit would also cut down my social media usage time by a good percentage. There are more benefits to quitting Reddit as protest. Can confirm it transferred over for me. Might be because it’s detecting Apollo.. so not sure what happens after June 30th. Hopefully it just does a full transfer Reddit is just another evil corporation. They're trying to go public, so expect all the normal evil to start I mean the Reddit app already does what Reddit wants it to do. Show ads, collect data, provide the bare minimum needed for people to interact with the site. Apps like Apollo and Rif were built for users, then added monetisation. Reddits app was built for monetisation and then user experience the companies have people at the top telling them what to do and those people are only motivated by money, not to make a good product The users generate *all* the content that brings people to the site. Users volunteer their time to moderate subreddits. Reddit the company is probably the least important part of the ecosystem, users can go elsewhere, and moderators can spend their free time moderating anywhere. That piece of shit /u/spez wants to spout off about third-party apps mooching off Reddit for years? Bro your shitty company has been mooching off dedicated volunteers for its entire existence. >They RELY on volunteer moderators Let's put this in real terms: they rely on unpaid labor that they're trying to leverage for an IPO so that people like Steve Huffman (spez) and all the venture capitalists that reddit took money from can cash in and fuck them out of their labor. The last time Reddit got involved in replacing mods (on r/antiwork) they installed a literal pedophile and bestiality proponent (beastophile?) as the head moderator. If they failed that tremendously when dealing with one subreddit, imagine how they'd do when trying to do 100s simultaneously. Yeah, dumped FB long ago, then IG, and most recently Twitter. Guess Reddit is next. Thanks /u/spez, you done did Digg all over again...  That was -167k, I'd love to see it break -200k Edit: it was ***667k***, let's go for a million then! Lmao. The API pricing’s intent is to provide developers with a sense of pride and accomplishment as they are forced to deprecate the only things making Reddit bearable from a UX perspective. I predict he answers 2 pre-planned questions from plants, then auto-replies "watch rampart" and dips. It should be indefinite, until Reddit actually engages with this properly. *u/spez, your website seems to have the momentum of a runaway freight train. Why are you so popular?* He'll just answer cherry picked comments, probably will answer like 10 > /u/spez I wonder if /u/spez is considering quietly editing all our comments to say `we love /u/spez` because that's what he would do just to be clear, fuck /u/spez Yeah, u/spez, edit our comments. I fucking dare you. (https://i.imgur.com/ki8Npqi.png) This is a copied template message used to overwrite all comments on my account to protect my privacy. I've left Reddit because of corporate overreach and switched to the Fediverse. Comments overwritten with https://github.com/j0be/PowerDeleteSuite I too, am a fan of VLC. I heard /u/spez is and will always continue to be a gigantic piece of shit who’s entire legacy will be running Reddit into the ground. Year after year, one bad business decision after another. Just another Elon except Spez hasn’t done anything even remotely useful for the planet. I guess he fancies himself as a survivalist and someone people would follow. It’s probably some of the most neckbeard shit I’ve ever read. Yeah, he deleted all the threads but those of us who were there still remember All the AMA will be is an announcement how reddit is actually in the right, and how any subs that participate in the protest will be purged of mods and replaced. It won't be long before they get rid of old reddit as well. When Reddit shut down Alien Blue they gave me 4 years of Reddit Gold for being a premium user, which came with free coins. I still have 1,100 left over. Wouldn’t it be ironic to use my “sorry we killed your third-party app” coins on a “Reddit is killing my third-party app” announcement? Oh absolutely. I LOVE that feature. This really is… was the best app. Wow this is the yuckiest thing I’ve ever read. How do you even sleep at night? the entire api design is odd af. why go through a central server instead of per user? Nan isn’t a competition she’s a lady I’ve just been upvoting basically everything for years - I dread to imagine how many api calls I’ve been responsible for (unless upvotes could be bundled into one call)… still over 11k, might as well spend them on this post. I think B most likely seeing most subs are going further than the 2 day blackout. Don't delete your account. Sell it to bot farms to make reddit worse. At least you get money on your exit This is painful to me largely for that reason. No matter how this ends, it's burnt a lot of bridges for a lot of valuable users who have made this site what it is. And we're going to lose all that, and it sucks.   Yeah you know that’s true. Even if reddit backs out at the last minute, Apollo is done either way. 10 million for an app like Apollo is a FUCKING BARGAIN. They are incredibly dumb. The default Reddit app is ridiculous in comparison. The mistake you're making is thinking that what they care about is making a good app. They care about sucking in as much data as possible, serving ads, and (artificially if need be) drive up engagement with various crappy new features that dilute the original purpose of the site. The current official app is basically the fucking Darth Vader of apps, it was once a very good third-party app, until it was bought and corrupted. Spez (https://www.reddit.com/r/announcements/comments/5frg1n/tifu_by_editing_some_comments_and_creating_an/). When that happens, there's no marker visible to the public that the comments were edited. fuck me i never thought id be a tumblr user but i guess i have no choice Fingers crossed! I love my pet 🥺 Plus where are you gonna find a big enough fucking loser to fill u/awkwardtheturtle 's jannie shoes?  Looks like maybe they reset or obscured that count, too. It shows 0 for me. -1 now that I’ve downvoted it. Plant 1: How much fun did you have making these exciting changes to Reddit's policy. Plant 2: What would you say to people who are eagerly waiting for the plethora of new changes you are bringing to increase Reddit's market value. LOL oh my god Comments left by his alts. If they're feeling really cheeky, they'll adjust the algorithm so no negative questions appear up top. station coherent nose treatment tan jellyfish sharp rock enjoy badge *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with (https://redact.dev/home)* Yep. FUCK YOU CUNT u/spez Dude could u/spez be any fucking stupider??? I remember when the whole comment edit debacle happened, I remember the Ellen Pao debacle, I remember them firing Victoria. Every time I don't think u/spez could stoop lower he does. Fuck you, Steve. From the bottom of my heart, as a decade+ user of this site, fuck you. Your greed is going to tank this site that I once truly loved and enjoyed. /u/spez is a bitch boy, let's see if this gets edited. The comment and account just came back... weird? I'm afraid there's a backlog of "fuck you u/spez" It’s insane how prevalent this attitude is among successful tech guys. They got really good and *really* lucky at one thing, and somehow that’s convinced them that they’re instant experts at everything. Lol yeah, everyone thinks they're a survivalist when shit hasn't hit the fan. Honestly that would be best case scenario, then Reddit would truly die. This is my concern. I have addons and scripts that redirect everything to old.reddit is the other version is a hot mess. Once that goes I’ll have to blacklist reddit or try and find some text-only means of navigating, as there’s so much useful information in specialist subreddits for it to be too slow to load behind a shit broken front end redesign… Honestly the people who pay for reddit awards can go fuck themselves. It's giving money to an evil corporation for literally no gain. Fuck award givers. Fuck you for funding reddit and u/spez Edit: I hope all of you become homeless and see someone giving reddit awards instead of helping you . Because they ultimately don't want to support third-party apps. i lol'd, thank you. For old times' sake, it was a solid (https://old.reddit.com/r/CCW/comments/144hb1h/_/jnfvrbh) I predict A, but I would love to see B. I just don’t see people actually wanting to put in the effort to rise against the status quo. People are always accepting to the shitty hand that the corporate overlords inevitability gives us. Nah, Reddit is gonna use the bots to artificially inflate their user numbers for the IPO. Yes. This is the way! What script are you using? Narwhal user here and I can really appreciate your comment. When this shit first broke ground a few weeks ago I started thinking about the same. I hit ten years on Reddit in March and only recently started to engage, too. Maybe I can get back to some real world social interaction. My meager social life went out the door during the pandemic and it’s sad to to the greed seeping in now to ruin this space but I was around before Reddit, too. Peace out. -Midpack  Well Apollo is useless to them at any rate. It’s not built to push ad, supply algorithm data, support test features like polls, live streams, whatever engagement optimizations they’re trying this month…. They would have a hard time taking this app and bending it to their capitalistic will. Would end up running as shit as their own app. Reddit: "I cannot tell you how painful it is to use our API.  The API needs to change. Like it's just unusable. I am surprised that you're able to build a functional app on it to be honest." This move is not about making the user experience better. It's a move to kill 3rd party apps in order to funnel everyone through the official reddit app so they can stuff more ads up our asses. That cunt Huffman and his crew have already run the numbers and projections about how many users will leave permanently. They *don't give a fuck* because their math still gives them enough money to buy a 7th gated off McMansion they'll visit twice a year and another couple tiny dick cars they'll flash to try and impress other rich sociopaths. They *do not care what the users want*. At all. The absolute state of bootlickers there. The CEO of Reddit edited the database over a personal grievance and everyone was just so happy about it because they didn’t like the targets. It’s a microcosm of life. Also: > Yeah I’ve been a daily user of Reddit for 4+ years now and I truly don’t care. I like Reddit. You can do whatever you want and I wont stop coming here. So just saying. You probably dont hear this side too often. Just lol Tumblr's pretty great actually. If only they allowed reply chain system and collapsing child replies, it could actually replace Reddit to some degree.  Eh, potato potato, I knew it ended in 67k, just forgot the digit before it He can just change the number of downvotes server side. Yep, same here. This lack of transparency doesn't wear well right now, reddit. And they locked it lmao I like there energy, but let's not be the bad guys here. That said, u/spez is literally hitler. I remember all those events, too. Them firing Victoria was a turning point for the site, IMO. Seems like u/spez saw what Musk has done to Twitter and was like, “Hey, no fair! I wanna piece of that action, too!” I’m also guessing the former high-level Twitter person Christian talked to was Jack, so I’m sure he’s fully aware Reddit’s antics are completely out of line. Oh well. News is now making the rounds on tech sites. u/iamthatis has posted plenty of transcripts and logs to show Reddit’s execs are pieces of shit. Other devs are following suit at the end of the month, which means no more RIF, Joey, etc. I’m curious to see what the fallout is going to be once the 3rd party apps go dark. It’s been a good 12 year run for me. I’ll stick with the app till the bitter end, but I’m out after that. Can confirm /u/spez is a bitch boy. It reminds me of that Dead Kennedys song N*zi punks fuck off. He says “in the real 4th Reich, you’ll be the first to go” hold my.......................eh, fuck it. reddit is done.  And instead, they get neither. The dogshit UI on their app is the main issue. They would definitely make this one worse if they bought it, but it would still be miles better.  I wanna be here for the downvotes brigade. \#solidarity And you know he will… they already locked the AMA announcement… They've tried that before. All they did was run that app into the ground too Fair point. Alien Blue was night and day from the first-party offerings, and then it felt like they learned nothing from it when they had it. after seeing u/spez in that ama thread i’m not sure if there is an amicable way forward for any party. sorry that you’re going through this, ty for the years of amazing development and service It's their demise, we've seen this happen in the past, time and time again. It just takes an idjit at the helm, every time. And the Dumpster fire keeps getting bigger: https://www.neowin.net/news/reddit-claimed-to-have-been-hacked-by-blackcat-and-it-has-threatened-to-leak-the-data/ At this point Reddit has show their true colors when it comes to users, developers and moderators. ***They don't care***. and Spez has shown what reddit will be like as a public company under his leadership. Thank you Christian for all your hard work with Apollo and with us in the community. we ❤️ you. and we look forward to your next adventure and using what you create. Indie or part of another company. I wish the sunset of Apollo was under better circumstances. **Thank You Christian For Making Great Reddit Client Apollo!** And According to (https://www.reddit.com/u/spez) Reddit meanings: R- Remind users that they dont matter. E- Earn $$$ with ads and subscriptions. D- Damage own brand with crap official app. D- Decide to charge 3rd parties for API use. I- Imagine nothing will go wrong. T- Transform into shell of former glory. Edit: Upvoted via Apollo for Reddit💙 It’s their loss!! Reddits CEO really showing his colours here! Christian comes with receipts. I plan on declining my refund if presented with the option, I consider others to do the same if you are able. Fuck /u/spez Thanks for fighting the good fight, u/iamthatis! Keep fighting the good fight everyone. Christian, sorry it’s not worked out for you - let’s hope common sense prevails. Two things that keep standing out to me: 1) Not allowing users to use their own API key so they can pay for their own usage makes no sense to me at all. I use Arq for file backup and they provide a configuration to use an existing Amazon S3 bucket I pay for which is super convenient. Why can’t I pay for an API key so all requests I make go through it and then I pay monthly for usage? Hell I’ll pay Reddit a fee just to be granted an API key to enable this. This is simply hostile by Reddit and runs in contradiction with their goals to make money from developer API access. 2) Christian is on the hook for QUARTER OF A MILLION DOLLARS to pay back Apollo annual subscribers and there’s likely not a way to quickly build a toggle for users to opt in and say “no way, keep the money” because the timeframe is too short. Again, not only is Christian losing his main source of income but also is out of pocket $250,000 due to shitty actions by Reddit. Personally I want to see Reddit slapped with a monster lawsuit because Christian is right: their lies will impact his career going forward and have tarnished his reputation. Fuck Reddit and fuck Spez RIP Reddit. Really sad to see it go this way. Seeing how spez idolizes Elon and wants to follow what he did to Twitter just confirms its time to move on after 17 years on here. What an end to an era :( Thank you for everything, I will really miss Apollo. That probably marks the end of my active use of Reddit overall. I have to say, I'm surprised how Steve Huffman is still CEO. Pretty crazy how he seems to be getting away with what should be career-ending statements. It's just such a shame that they couldn't make a bit of effort to negotiate reasonable pricing- I would have been happy paying a small subscription. If that's their attitude to potential paying customers (ie you and other developers), I don't know how the hell they expect to come across as an investable company with a solid business model. Have tipped a small amount, as Apollo had probably been the most used app on my phone for a while now. Best wishes for whatever you do next! Christian - I sincerely hope you and the Reddit team can work something out. I’ve loved Reddit for a long time and I’ve loved accessing Reddit via your app for a few years now. I’d hate to see it go, but if it does I will no longer be a Reddit user. There is no Reddit without Apollo.  Whaat? You mean to tell me Spez is a lying sack of shit? Wow, I had nooo ideeeaaa.. Godspeed u/iamthatis. You legend.  > "they’re mad because they used to get something for free, and now it’s going to be not free" Fun fact! RIF used to pay Reddit a “sizeable revenue share”. Spez terminated the agreement shortly after rejoining as CEO: > Shu also tells me that RIF was paying a “sizable revenue share” to Reddit beginning in 2012, which was during Yishan Wong’s tenure as CEO. Shu says he says initiated the talks with Reddit to create the agreement, which allowed for the licensed use of Reddit’s trademarks. (At the time, the app was called “reddit is fun.”) Shu says Reddit terminated the agreement in 2016 — which was the year after Huffman took over as CEO. https://www.theverge.com/2023/6/16/23763661/reddit-rif-is-fun-developer-ceo-steve-huffman > This is the false argument Steve Huffman keeps repeating the most. Developers are very happy to pay. Why? Reddit has many APIs (like voting in polls, Reddit Chat, view counts, etc.) that they haven’t made available to developers, and a more formal relationship with Reddit has the opportunity to create a better API experience with more features available. > What developers do have issue with, is the unreasonably high pricing that you originally claimed would be “based in reality”, as well as the incredibly short 30 days you’ve given developers from when you announced pricing to when developers start incurring massive charges. Charging developers 29x higher than your average revenue per user is not “based in reality”. Everyone defending Reddit seems to be misunderstanding this entire argument. **How many times does it need to be repeated that developers do not care about paying, it’s the ridiculously high fee that is the issue?** Edit: Where can we follow you? I don’t think you’re going to remain very active on Reddit after all this is finished with. I know you have several “social media” links, but what’s the one we should you following you on? Fuck u/spez !!! Block me you won’t 😤 Rest in piss, reddit. June 30th I’m out. The one thing I still don't get entirely is why Reddit doesn't try to insert ads into the feeds it was delivering apps like Apollo. It seems like that at the bare minimum should have been some sort of stopgap on their revenue loss. There is no reason ads that work with old.reddit should not also essentially work nearly out of the box in an Apollo environment. Alternatively if power users who use Apollo don't want ads, have them sign up for Reddit Gold. To the front page, you go. And while I have your attention: Fuck you, /u/spez  You’d think Reddit would be more receptive to community feedback given the value of Reddit is dependent on its users actively engaging on the platform. Ads don’t make money if there is no one to see them. API charges don’t make money if there are no 3rd party apps paying them. Maybe I’m overestimating the size of the pushback from the community, but the truth will reveal itself soon enough. Posted from Apollo. The current trend of social media platforms being out of touch with their communities is incredibly funny to me, because after a few weeks/months pass, everyone will “go back to normal” except the platforms won’t be the same again, just like MySpace, just like Tumblr, and more recently, just like Twitter. The era of online community is dead and we are actively digging our internet grave. /u/iamthatis \- I would happily pay for an iOS app that you write for Lemmy. Mlem is a good attempt, but you could really help bring this to fruition. Please consider the fediverse at this point, for app development. Thank you for your amazing work. I am a proud lifetime subscriber of yours. I find it incredibly ironic/hypocritical that u/spez is decrying "developers want everything for free," while at the same time, he is looking to line his own pockets from the work put in by unpaid (free) volunteer mods as well as the content created and posted by users (for free). The hubris of u/spez in this context is bewildering. This whole shitstorm is self inflicted and Steve Huffman is directly responsible. /u/spez is not fit to continue as CEO. By his own admission he’s failed to make Reddit profitable and is destroying the only asset Reddit has: it’s moderators and community. Reddit just hosts the content but the only thing that is worth anything is what we have given Reddit for free. I’ll be fully moving to Tildes when Apollo goes dark. Thanks for all the work over the years, sad to see it pissed away by a guy trying to cosplay Elon.  This is my first comment since the blackout. And will likely be my last. The time to leave has passed. There’s no fixing this. And there are solid alternatives, with 3rd apps that are quickly being built, with no CEO to ruin it. I’m using Lemmy. And it’s growing. The iOS beta apps mlem and Memmy are a great start. They’ve been getting updated almost daily. And they have teams working on them. The communities are refreshingly not toxic. I think it’s early on, and there’s growing pains, but I’d rather jump on something that is getting better than something that will never improve, and only get worse. I hope when this is all done people with a voice point out the alternatives. Anyone else love the fact that slimy fuck u/spez either straight up doesn’t use his own product or is too ashamed/embarrassed to post on his main account? Dude goes 10 months without a peep, shows back up when he’s forced into an AMA, then goes back to complete silence after, like, 7-8 condescending comments and being (rightfully) torn apart. Straight back to his safe place where nobody can hurt his feelings. :) Fuck u/spez. Thanks for the great app. Good luck on your future endeavours. I specifically upgraded to Ultra **annual** to "donate" more money. And only because you blocked lifetime. Tf with this refund you are talking about? Shut up and take my money. https://i.imgur.com/qD5QPi3.jpg "The beatings will continue until morale improves." - spez, probably. I fucking love these posts where you bring the receipts. Gets all of this gaslighting out in the open and exposes just how malicious Spez is being. ## Christian, I'd like to add two small points that I haven't seen mentioned elsewhere. (It's entirely possible I may have missed it, in which case, I'm very sorry. I do not claim any originality anyway) Steve has repeatedly asserted that it is simply unfair that these 3Ps are making millions while reddit is still not profitable, as evident in statements such as: > It’s not reasonable to let this... it’s been going on for a very long time. Folks have made millions. > These aren’t like side projects or charities, they’ve made millions. > You’re talking to them, go ask them! Millions. It does seem reasonable, on the *surface*. But wait... Other people are making money on reddit too. Countless services are offered — copywriting, blogs, code, legal advice, etc. — and people earn income. Is Steve going to approach each one of them and say > Hey! You're making money off of reddit *while we're still not profitable*? **How dare you!!! You're done here!** ## Here's the real kicker Steve thinks it is absolutely, undeniably wrong for Christian to be making millions while Reddit is still not profitable. Let's set aside the point that he's pitting a *one-guy* operation against an *entire* corporation. So, Stevie, my dear, you believe it is **immoral** to be making millions off of Reddit ***when Reddit isn't even profitable***. **Would you please be so kind as to declare your compensation including salary and stock grants for the last fiscal year?** What, my love? **Did you just say you made *millions* while *Reddit isn't even profitable?*** **YOU MADE *MILLIONS* WHILE *REDDIT ISN'T EVEN PROFITABLE*?** Oh, Stevie. Oh, you poor lad. **You fucked up, Stevie. You fucked up big time!** The door's that way, love. You're out. HOPE TO NEVER SEE YOU AGAIN! Need The Verge to re-engage with Reddit with this information now When a company goes public, it goes to shit. RIP Apollo Be careful guys, Spez might start editing your comments and posts. Thanks for everything Christian! Really sad it had to end like that... Also guys do not refund. I think it's the least we can do. I find it extremely hard to believe this person should be the CEO of anywhere, let alone one of the largest websites on the internet. Any investor of any size who's seen how this entire fiasco has been handled is running, not walking, away. I really can't think of a worse way that he could have done this - maybe threatening to murder people? Store Brand Elon seems completely unhinged and wildly unfit for the role.  cows complete yoke compare subsequent teeny towering nine light rainstorm *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with (https://redact.dev)* Christian please make a Lemmy client or something. I think a huge number of Reddit users are looking to jump ship, but there’s a critical mass problem. You announcing that you’re throwing your weight behind a particular community would probably be a pretty big push for people. Christian you’re a gentleman and you shouldn’t have to stoop to their level. You made an awesome product and I am going to miss it so much. We know you fought for us. And it won’t be forgotten. I hope this outpouring of support is a small reflection of your impact and our appreciation. You directly have given me access to countless laughs, and sharing of info, and awareness of global news, etc. thank you for these few years. I wish you the absolute best in your future endeavors and I know you’re gonna be amazing. I’m sure you have 100,000s of offers already but hit me up if you need a communication expert, debate coach, crisis manager, Dungeon Master, Xbox/RimWorld coop buddy, friend, etc. Godspeed, Sweet Prince. Honestly, it's crazy to see 2 services I really enjoy drive me to quit within 6 months of each other. I liked Twitter. You could find a way to stay out of the toxic places and have some interesting discussions. Reddit is full of really interesting communities and people. Especially great for finding expert opinions on interests you're new to. There's just no way I can support either moving forward. Which just sucks. 🫶🏻 fuck reddit for this whole mess, apollo is genuinely the only reason i even bother with reddit thanks christian for everything you’ve done and fuck reddit for trying to tarnish your reptuation Don't forget when the admins got incensed and declared that Google and Amazon don't help you figure out how to use their APIs more efficiently, and everyone had to call them on how entirely untrue that was. Clown show. So pathetic! And I’m not calling a full grown adult “SPEZ.” The public sucking of Elon by /u/spez was probably the most disgusting thing in this whole post Gotta confess: I’ve been on Reddit for years, but I just used my laptop & their glitchy app (look, I like chainsaws & old movies & books & growing my own cannabis & certain consensual unmentionable adult activities, my IT skills went downhill after college). I didn’t even know about any of this “thanks for doing all the hard work, now pay up” shit until the kerfuffle. At least Tom Sawyer wasn’t a dickhead about convincing the other kids to whitewash the fence… Deleted my old account, stayed dark for the two days, started this new account, have only used Apollo since. FFS, talk about shooting yourself in the foot: not just Reddit but me. You guys browsed like this?? This app’s fucking awesome. I can’t tell you how many times I had issues, since I got on Apollo it’s been all 11 no 13. Thanks u/iamthatis, belated solidarity. I’m literally taking a break from burning some dead branches & fertilizing my 4 Moby Dick strain planters to write this. Hope the good guys win, and yeah, my bad for being the guy showing up with like 5 minutes until the credits (I hope not?) saying “yeah, I’m Spartacus too?” Fuck /u/spez Fuck /u/spez Fuck /u/spez Oh did I forget to say... Fuck /u/spez With Twitter, Elon Musk destroys $30B in valuation in only a few months while turning the site into a hellscape of misogyny, racism, fascism, amplified disinformation, all while running ads that range from deadly (grill bags covered in Teflon) to outright scams (drones) to utterly creepy (miniature cameras with demo videos showing them put between a person's toes to take upstarts). /u/spez's response? "Hold my beer! I bet I can destroy Reddit even faster!" Upvoted via apollo. fuck /u/spez God I’m gonna miss Apollo I’ve been using the native reddit app off and on recently just to get used to it for when I have to switch over and it’s miserable: noisy, too much text everywhere, ads tripping up my flow. When Apollo goes offline I’m done with reddit mobile. Christian continues to detail the truth and keep very detailed receipts, but Reddit admin have no good answer to any of this, and it’s just plain sad. Posted via r/ReddPlanet I don’t understand if a user pays for Reddit Premium why that doesn’t make all their API calls free or similar. That’d be the biggest win for Reddit. Force premium and forget the API bill Fuck u/spez Fuck u/spez 🤡 First and foremost, fuck u/spez, absolute runt. But secondly, as sad as it is see that the app will be going (and subsequently my entire interest to ever use this platform ever again), I do want to thank you for having developed and maintained such a pleasant app, in the very least! I seriously hope the situation gets reversed at some point. I have little to no hope, but I'm choosing to hold out hope. Reddit is, even more than Twitter (and unlike what Steve thinks), a user-generated content platform. On Twitter you have a lot more services and bots that are essentially useful yet don't require moderation. Reddit requires users to generate content (well… you know!) and actual unpaid users to manage and moderate the communities. Have been using Reddit more these last few days… to enjoy Apollo all the way to the end. I'm sure I'm not alone and the usage will decline come July 1st. Fingers crossed for new management and decision reversal before 2024. I fully intend to either decline the refund, or accept it and then put it right into Pixel Pals. I share a similar sentiment to everyone here that loves the work you put into this app. Personally, I hope that you work on a 3rd party app for something involved in the fediverse (though I know you said you may not be interested in interviews). I’d happily throw money at a Mastodon/Lemmy/kbin/etc. client made by you. So long as my pixel pal can tag along :) Just tipped $10 on the Apollo tip jar. I wish I could give you more. I really encourage everyone to give what you can to help Christian with the lingering expenses of refunds and the shutdown of Apollo. This is one of the best apps I’ve ever used and it has provided me with so much value through the years, a one time $5 or $10 thank you tip is very reasonable imo. Stop paying Reddit to give awards to this post and instead give Christian a tip for all he’s done for this community! Honestly I’m starting to think that the Reddit developers, Steve specifically has something personal against 3rd party apps. Did 3rd party apps slowly kill their families with fire while making them watch as their very world fell apart before their eyes? Recently started to use Apollo, and now I feel like I’ve missed out using the official app on my iPhone /u/spez is too cowardly to respond on his own platform lol Shame on you /u/spez  From the AMA: >P.S. old.reddit.com isn’t going anywhere, and explicit content is still allowed on Reddit as long as it abides by our content policy. So it took 6 months for them to go from "There are no changes to API pricing" to charging, expect old.reddit.com and NSFW to be gone by the end of the year. 🫡 Thanks for keeping up the fight Christian. Shame on u/spez . I hope this website dies without you Thank you, Christian. This breaks my heart. When/if Apollo goes offline, I will be leaving Reddit. I just don’t want to support an organization with values like this. Same reason I left Facebook, stopped using Uber (that was a few years ago) and most recently, Twitter. Something about popularity and success seems to make people/companies crazy. Thank you for an excellent app and all your hard work. It is/was very much appreciated. I love how Apollo is just providing receipts every time spez spouts more bullshit. This post should be at the top of every subreddit. As Reddit enters the regulatory arena of publicly traded companies, I wonder: **could any of /u/spez’s conduct amount to securities fraud?** I'm on android, so I've always used RIF, but I still have mass appreciation for your work and everything you've done these past few weeks. Thanks for communicating with us. Something Darth /u/Spez and his Snootroopers never did. I don’t want to believe it, but management at Reddit seems absolutely delusional. Whether people continue to use the site, that’s their prerogative. I know for a fact that I will dissuade anybody from investing in the site. In a way, this situation makes me more angry than Twitter’s actions. The active, malicious lies being spread by the company make me never want to have anything more to do with such a company. It’s sad to see. I really think content mods need to strike for pay. It’s free, and a labor of love. I don’t think Reddit could bring in scab labor for mods who were working for free in the first place. It’s crazy to me that they seem to have forgotten that all of their site’s content and is user generated and moderation is volunteer based. And that Reddit brings almost nothing to the table but the server space and the basic platform (again which these 3rd party apps have improved upon by orders of magnitude!) Thank you u/iamthatis. And fuck you u/spez. I’m outta here. Thanks for making the best app I’ve ever used Thanks for everything. One question - would it be possible/viable for you to do Apollo for Lemmy or kbin instead? Thank you for this update. Steve’s whole response to this just screams I’m a child and do what I want. He severely undervalues moderators and it’s a shame to see a vocal minority trying to support Steve and bash moderators. GJ on killing Reddit /u/spez. Fuck you. Hypothetically, in a world where they relent their API pricing after the initial shutdown due to the decrease in volume, would Apollo come back online or is the bridge burnt forever no matter what happens going forward? Christian, We all know that u/Spez is an inveterate liar; a liar who continuously, and repeatedly modifies his posts, to suit his agenda. u/Spez is not believable in this case. What does astound me, is how childish u/Spez is, how infantile, and how u/Spez is demonstrating his lack of management competence. u/Spez has an agenda, there is no doubt about that. That agenda is not one that will be good for Reddit. Christian, I and, from what I read, hundreds of thousands of other people have faith in you and your abilities. I hope that Reddit management, and investors, are able to see how much damage Mr. Huffman has done, and is doing to the reputation of Reddit, and to those who have used Reddit. Many will leave Reddit, and go elsewhere. Hopefully, a competitor will arise where your skills and abilities are better suited to. With best regards, Pilgrim_of_Reddit. Don't need a refund. You have made my life a lot better on browsing. Sad to see it go, hoping for a miracle. God Speed I've noted that often when this topic comes up in subs, it's jumped on instantly by hyper aggressive users who try and belittle those who are for the protest. That's a tactic used by bots and the far right to make people feel bad about speaking up in favour. All very bizarre. I got Reddit is fun as part of my family's android sharing as I would not bother with the standard app. I was on Reddit properly back in the 2016 the Donald days but the new Reddit and the app just turn this into a very different experience. Oh well, musk and spez really have bought into their own bs 100% /u/iamthis : Please also mirror your published content, including receipts in a public GitHub repository, in the case you get banned by Reddit, or this post is edited by external parties without your consent or knowledge. Tipped! Thank you, Christian. I plan to abandon Reddit over this. (You have been awesome throughout.) > "These people who are mad, they're mad because they used to get something for free” Oh, like the entire content of the website? And the Mods teams for pretty much every subreddit? The fucking audacity, Steve. I swear.   This is more than just u/spez, in all likelihood the whole C-level board is just as incompetent and planned this bullshit out. Hope they’re enjoying the show at least, tits are back on r/all like the old days. I’m sure advertisers are loving it!  And friendly reminder A lot of us have moved over to the two big “fediverse” severs that are getting lots of traffic. My recommendation is lemmy.world since the admins run it kind of like Reddit and lots of people post / comment. https://lemmy.world https://kbin.social The web UX kind of sucks right now, but the Mlem and Memmy app are coming along in very early beta. I will commit Reddicide a month before the IPO. If millions of us do so, there will bad press coverage, it would shake investor confidence and Spez will go on a tantrum. A lot of people are going to leave reddit within the next month, and a lot of people will stay. And some of the people who stay will post things like “See? Reddit is still here. All of that complaining accomplished nothing.” and they won’t notice that anything has changed. But over time the quality of the content will drop. The ads will get worse. Reddit will pull more nonsense once the heat dies down. And at some point in the future those same users will look around and say “Man, when did Reddit get so crappy?” Honestly , I don’t believe so . Times have changed , the internet has consolidated far too much , Mastodon tried but it hasn’t really changed much with Twitter , I’d imagine a similar thing will happen here . Reddit may get a dent in their user base , but just go and read on other subreddits like NBA or similar . Most people were angry with the blackout and don’t use third party apps . I’m just piggybacking but wouldn’t it be most bad for them if we boycotted any company taking out ads on Reddit? Show them we can come together and hit them where it hurts. We are their content creators, they’re just freeloaders and that wasn’t enough for them. Stop buying anything you see advertised here. That boycott would take all ad campaigns from Reddit and then they wouldn’t have that sweet sweet revenue stream. They can have our “attention” back when they meet our wants and needs as both the creators and users of the app / website. I hope so, too, but I find it rather telling that all the discussion about it, and alternate sites to try, took place on (checks notes) … Reddit. Nowhere else currently has the same number of viewers. Anyone dumb enough to be a Reddit shareholder after this better get used to losing often. > In our last email to ,  stated that we wanted $4.5 million in exchange for the deletion of the data and our silence. As we also stated, if we had to make this public, then we now demand that they also withdraw their API pricing changes along with our money or we will leak it. > We expect to leak the data. Lmao This website has free labor in moderation, 2000 employees but yet somehow is getting hacked and can’t make money. How embarrassing Even though it’s illegal, I’m kinda cheering for them. Reddits move has been disingenuous from the start. They deserve what they get. Were able to access using phishing emails no less too. What a joke So now they actually ARE getting blackmailed. L. O. L. Good. Get fucked u/spez > Based on our investigation so far, Reddit user passwords and accounts are safe This is hard to believe given their track record of transparecy with this 3rd party situation so far. I am really surprised that Anonymous or some black hats didn't do this already. You don't anger the internet and get away with it Good to see that this is happening  Am I missing something or is Reddit like not profitable enough to become public? Plus they missed the IPO tech phase by like 2 years IMO Okay doing an acrostic as a comment made my day. Thank you If this is specific to u/spez, E should stand for “eat farts”. Nasty dude. His Musk fanboying in the recent days makes it so obvious that Huffman has no clue about this website and it's userbase. Yep, and they appear to be a lovely mix of Vomit Verde™ and Bowel Movement Brown™ He’s basically taking a page out of some contemporary politicians playbook. Lie confidently, block out people who fact check you, and assume the lazy press will try to “both sides” it.  No way I’m refunding anything. I’ve gotten way more than my money’s worth over the years. > I plan on declining my refund if presented with the option, I consider others to do the same if you are able. Same. Same here, Christian deserves to keep the money. Obligatory fuck /u/spez Same. I love this app so much. I dunno if I’ll even use Reddit now unless I truly need info from an old thread. I’m gonna support anything he puts out. Already got my pixel pals Yep, I don't want my money back. I want things made right, but that won't happen and I'm happy to be a better person than u/spez and try to help Christian weather this. I'm hoping that perhaps when Reddit leaves him no choice, he'll build a really great client for Lemmy or another Reddit alternative instead and let you just move your subscription over to that service instead. 100% declining the refund. I’ve been so happy with what Christian has done with this app, and I got tons of usage since my last annual payment This is exactly what I paid Christian for, as I see it. I bought Apollo because I think it’s really important to support independent developers who make a great product. Everything Christian has done in this saga has called attention to and bettered that cause. I think Reddit has damaged its reputation in a way that may be permanent. Maybe you could make the argument that subs like r/news were too important to close-- people will always search for the word "news", so that tag has to be owned by Reddit. But they also threatened the mods of r/WatchPeopleDieInside. That's a gimmick sub that some guy came up with a few years ago. Just a fun project that some users made successful. And now Reddit comes along and threatens them with the boot. That's not defensible. > let’s hope common sense prevails. He’s now tripled down so I somehow doubt that. What a fucking cunt. Regardless, he’s shown exactly why so many people valued his app. He made something that improved the Reddit experience for many people. And has tried everything possible to resolve this. It’s an unfortunate sign of our times that people exhibiting integrity, patience and good character are left twisting in the wind while greed and shortsightedness win out. Reddit is going to drive me and others away. Good luck with your IPO. It was dicey before all this. Recent events have made it far worse. I’m glad I got to use Apollo for years. Without a doubt one of the best apps I’ve ever had.  > Not allowing users to use their own API key so they can pay for their own usage makes no sense to me at all. It makes perfect sense if you start from the assumption that Reddit wants to kill 3rd party apps. My site offered a plan that allowed projects to get a subscription funded API key. Basically, users would pay $12/year and companies wouldn't have to pay a thing. We allow free access for most projects anyway, but this would allow commercial companies to bypass contract negotiation if they preferred to just allow users to pay for that access. Users benefit because they can use their PIN with any project that uses a subscription API key, and they also get ad-free on the site. If companies made use of it (very few do), we would be HUGELY profitable, as $12/year is FAR more than a single user would generate from ads. Using calculations in this post, if Reddit currently makes $0.12/user MRR and could make $1/user MRR, that would be enough to make them profitable almost immediately if a decent portion of users converted. From the app side, I'm sure Apollo and RiF would have negotitated similarly. If they charged $20 annually, for example, and gave $12 of that to Reddit. Big profits for everyone, and I think most of us would be fine paying $20/year if it meant we were able to continue to use these apps and support their development even more. spez just fucked up by not being more creative with his approach. Yep, it really sucks. I'm on kbin.social now instead, only checking in on reddit when I get linked for stuff like this... and basically all my recent comments are about helping people migrate. I don't want to support reddit at all any longer. Reddit won't die, 80% of users are too new to know or care about anything else than the shitty app. But it's a big fuck you to the people who were here longer.  Same for me. At most I’ll pop onto a thread from a google search but that’s gonna be it. Apollo is Reddit for me. Absolutely. Reddit is simply not the same without Apollo.  Came here to say the same. Definitely speak to a lawyer asap. Canada has more generous defamation laws than the US, too. You don’t need to prove that the offending party had malicious intent, just that they lied and that the lie had the potential to harm you. Defendants are also presumed guilty until proven innocent.  Instead of mass deleting posts, replace them with smutty fanfiction to break LLMs using it as training data. What the fuck. There should be a class action with anyone who's ever deleted anything. This is known already. You have to edit comments and then delete. Isn't that a violation of GDPR? Send a GDPR data delete request. If they fail to do so, report it. Need to have scripts that just slowly and steadily remove and corrupt your posts erratically to not only remove it but also make it negative value.  >does things that lose money >complains about not being profitable 🤡 Was going to mention this. Huffman actually got rehired in 2015, but made it his priority to "fix" the mobile browser experience and release a half-assed app as soon as possible. The 2016 release of their app coincides with the termination of this agreement. I imagine the app "competition" has been a thorn in his side for a very long time. I honestly can't imagine the dude as anything but a petulant, envious child. Btw, does anyone remember RedditGifts? How absolutely jaded of a human being do you have to be to can a 12-year old, altruistic tradition because of what, server costs? And *still*, "no profit". Maybe antagonizing the community will get you there.  Unreasonably high fees and unreasonably short notice. If either of those were able to be negotiated there would be a chance for a reasonable outcome. Reddit bosses are absolutely in the wrong here. >How many times does it need to be repeated that developers do not care about paying, it’s the ridiculously high fee that is the issue? Reddit CEO knows, he is just lying through his teeth because thats how CEO's work. Reddit is killing third-party applications (and itself) so in protest to Reddit's API changes, I have removed my comment history. Whatever the content of this comment was, go vegan! 💚 He’d probably just edit your profile and unblock himself anyway, what a prized prick Fuck u/spez I hope you never have a stable or fast internet connection again There are **so many** different ways they could have gone about this that would have gone over better than charging enormously per API call. - Require users pay for Reddit Premium to use third-party apps - If the concern is users of third-party apps won't see their ads, insert the ads into the API - Have a revenue share agreement with developers, (https://www.theverge.com/2023/6/16/23763661/reddit-rif-is-fun-developer-ceo-steve-huffman) Because the “we’re losing money by supporting these 3rd party apps” narrative is just an excuse for them to price block 3rd party apps and get everyone onto their platform. The real answer here from someone that works in advertising is that the advertisers won't buy it. Or they would, but they would pay much lower rates. They want to know exactly how their ads will look and where they'll show up. When you have an un-standardized display format in third party apps you can't do that. Even for banner ads (which usually cost way less than paid social on a CPM basis anyways) the display format is still standardized. So, for example, if I buy a 300x500 banner ad from Google, it will always show up as 300x500 because the way it works is the website owner puts a 300x500 box on the site and then lets Google control that box. So even if the surrounding context is different, what's in the box isn't. Whereas, if I were to buy a sponsored post on reddit, by the nature of 3rd party apps the space would be all different shapes and sizes, on some the picture might be larger and on some it might be smaller, on some it might be at the top and on others it might be in the middle. When that happens, advertisers are willing to pay a fraction of what they would for a controlled environment. My worry is that it’s a deliberate move to cull out voices who counteract their propaganda. Easier to believe with Elon Twitter, but worrying from Reddit, too. This. I like lemmy but since there’s not a working iOS app it’s only usable in a web browser. An Apollo app for lemmy would be great! I bought lifetime Apollo once, would happily buy it again for a Lemmy version! Christian was a guest in the latest (https://daringfireball.net/thetalkshow/2023/06/17/ep-379) and they touched on this. Basically, Lemmy is still very raw and making an app as good as Apollo is a huge undertaking, so it's not something he's considering doing for now. Although /u/spez is the public face of Reddit their board has been completely quiet through this, it's not like him leaving would have any substantial effect on the direction the company is going. I just don't understand why a reasonable price structure isn't an option. Reddit has generally positive sentiment from users, especially those using third party apps for so many years. Aaron Swartz (Reddit co-founder, anti-SOPA/PIPA activist, and open source advocate who has sadly passed away) would surely be devastated to see what Steve has turned the company into. Maybe send a donation instead of doing this, Idk if Apple has penalties for more refunds Edit: donations also skip the Apple cut Edit2: (https://old.reddit.com/r/RedditAlternatives/comments/14dukw4/lemmy_beginners_guide_in_layers/) The (https://www.wired.com/story/tiktok-platforms-cory-doctorow/) will continue until stock prices improve. Christian is one of the few people in my mind that deserve to be millionaires. He’s earned it. Spez hasn’t. His profits come from greed and others hard work. He has the charm of a yeast infection, and the business literacy of a slapped mosquito. He was better off sticking to ballet. That way, he’d only be disappointing the people who have the misfortune of watching. It's been going to shit even before it has gone public lol. To be fair the Twitter valuation was stupidly wrong which is why their board went to court to force Poor Impulse Control Boy to follow through - if they hadn't done so they could be targeted with shareholder lawsuits regarding their failure to accept a stupidly high offer. If nothing else we know Reddit won't lose $20 billion in valuation because it's just not there to lose, and we also have more examples of the kind of management quality that has kept Reddit unprofitable even as other social media companies have done well and as Reddit has become a go-to place for answers. I'm incredibly surprised the board of directors hasn't caught on to how toxic it is for their company with spez being on top of the throne. Or maybe they are just letting spez say the quiet part out loud and are happy to have him be the fall guy. In that case they are equally culpable in this disaster. And mark my word, if this goes through, it will be an absolute disaster for the company. Might even make the demise of digg look like a joke. And that event caused reddit to become what it is today. >in all likelihood the whole C-level board is just as incompetent and planned this bullshit out. Planned? They heard that chatGPT gets trained on reddit and the management went 🤑   I’m letting Reddit go with Apollo. I got off each one of the social networks: Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn and have found more time and peace. I’m sad to leave Reddit behind, but it will be for my good. Thanks for the push Spez. I’ll miss the good people though. /u/spez the moderator of the jailbait subreddit? Steve Huffman is a god in the CP community When they took down pron from r/all and NSFW tags meant exclusively gore and violence. That's was a very unpleasant transition. Browsing reddit after that alone became much crappier. It also seems like violent/Gorey content became way more popular in general on Reddit. Now it's pretty uncommon to see children seriously trying to hurt eachother on r/all. Doesn't help there's no consistent way that I've found to filter individual subreddits from my feed. And NSFW can still just apply to regular adult situations/content that isn't violent so I don't want to block it all outright. > C-level board is just as incompetent While blaming idiocy before malice is generally good advice, I'm leaning towards some investors being fully aware of what they are doing. Invest in a site > it becomes popular > clean up the site's public image and prep for an IPO while alienating a good portion of the userbase > cash out your investments start over somewhere else while the site becomes a shell of what it was. Happened with Tumblr, maybe happening with Imgur? Definitely happening here soon. Typical venture capital investing cycle  Mlem is hoping to launch on July 1st with a bunch of new features, too. It’s going to be awesome. I'm just waiting for it to go full circle and see the resurrection of (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usenet), which was basically distributed, decentralized, asynchronous Reddit 40 years ago. It was even hierarchal, which was nicer sometimes than how super flat Reddit can be sometimes. People thought the reddit UX was ugly and unintuitive when it started getting popular too. I can give some grace to these non-corporate alternatives. Many like myself will be doing this come the end of the month when 3rd party goes offline. Your site is shit and full of predatory adds, your app is shit and full of garbage code. You got thirsty for more money and thought no one would notice, well you are now the next MySpace. We move on and forget you, enjoy the demise reddit; it's a shame so many developers and other humans will lose their jobs to your selfish greed. Can't wait to see the reddit replacement. When Apollo goes dark so will I. I’ve been a user for going on 12yrs and for a large portion of that I have been browsing using third party apps (RiF and Apollo). I started using RiF on my old Samsung Galaxy S4 Active literally years before there even was a first party app. I’ve tried the first party app, I do have it installed on my device and try using it occasionally and it’s just as unusable now as it was when I first tried it, so I have no desire to use it currently and no hope that it will improve drastically in the future. As a user for more than a decade I would rather hang it up altogether than use that jumbled mess of an app.  I don’t care about the IPO, I will commit Reddicide July 1st when Apollo stops working. I already deleted all my posts and comments prior to January 1st of this year, the rest will be deleted at the end of the month The /r/NBA beef was so funny to me, they acted like the mods personally saw to it that they'd never watch another basketball game again Fediverse based solutions seem to be sucking a lot of the air out of the room. They’re complex to use and full of tons of inside baseball, and the whole appeal of Apollo in the first place is it’s good UI. The ideal way to go would be something like what the Donald did, where they set up an additional external site that was a drop in Reddit replacement. They were obviously bad because they used it to commit treason, but something like that (with an external website that works almost exactly like Reddit) would be the ideal scenario. Hell, Reddit’s open source, you could literally just fork it >Most people were angry with the blackout Literally just untrue, the polls and vote counts have all been *overwhelmingly* in favor with the blackout and the primary complaint leading up was that two days probably wouldn't be enough. I have no idea why people keep repeating this idea uncritically when it's so patently absurd. > Most people were angry with the blackout and don’t use third party apps . Most people don’t realize that the third party apps are what’s standing in the way of a truly awful Reddit experience where they start rolling out tiered Reddit Premium packages where the cost for “no ads” goes through the roof and the cost for “less ads” is somewhat reasonable, and the Reddit Freedom Package eventually gets to the point where it shows you an ad for every upvote/downvote/comment/etc… It was the same situation with Digg. Everyone decided collectively from Digg to move to Reddit. That's been one of the big failures here. The mods should've collectively moved and setup shop somewhere else during the blackout and poached users en masse in the moment. Reddit's community quality has been sliding for years, and it's about Facebook tier at this point. People will migrate out slowly looking for better interactions and less bullshit, but it'll probably happen organically over time. At least there are a lot of options out there trying to plant their flags now. Comment has been removed because Spez killed Reddit :(  Grey hat hackers are the best The fact that this is like the 6th most visited website in the world and apparently /u/spez can’t manage to turn a profit tells you all you need to know about how well it’s run.  Especially considering that, at least according to Reddit, the data they're threatening to leak is "internal documents, code, and some internal business systems", not user passwords and accounts. o7 BlackCat. Robin hood was a criminal. Jus sayin. Phishing emails are like *the* most common way these breaches happen. No idea why that's a surprise? According to Reddit’s statement: > Based on our investigation so far, Reddit user passwords and accounts are safe, but on Sunday night (pacific time), Reddit systems were hacked as a result of **a sophisticated and highly-targeted phishing attack**. That’s corporate speak for, “Some exec fell for a really stupid spam email.” I mean spez said he looks at Elon's takeover and handling of Twitter as a model of how a social media company can be run, so he clearly has no clue what he's doing. Christian. Random interjection, sorry! I truly believe that we are all missing the point. They are not trying to create anything. Both Reddit and Twitter are largely financed by investors backed authoritative regimes. I firmly believe we are seeing a concerted effort to rip apart more liberal/progressive connection points on the internet to seed it with misinformation and bigotry. This will allow more authoritarian groups to take control, and also further impinge workers rights campaigns, like unionization attempts. It also benefits them as it slows down information being shared. For you, this appears to be about your business. As an Apollo beta supporter, I’ve been here for the long haul, and I’m so sorry. But this is starting to look like a fight for authoritarian control of all social media. hi Christian. I know you are on mastodon but is there any other public social media you have for people that would like to keep up with you? Thanks. Honestly that alone says enough about the man’s character imo  It's interesting that you mention Musk. Remember, his close friend (https://nypost.com/2021/09/02/reddit-hiring-bankers-and-lawyers-ahead-of-planned-15b-ipo-report/amp/) is an investor in both Reddit and OpenAI. Considering this, it's hard to believe they're truly against the scraping. It almost seems like they're perfectly fine with Reddit morphing into a right-wing echo chamber. It also demonstrates that he really doesn't have any sort of foundational business sense. Looking at musks handling of Twitter with admiration should be the biggest red flag about a CEO right now. He guaranteed insolvency for the company and demonstrated a complete lack of understanding for how to properly monetize the platform. He's looking at a guy who made a company into something that can't pay its bills and going "oh I want to be just like him. He's doing a great job!" Absolutely. Even before all of this shit hit the fan I was willing to pay for Apollo again. >I’ve gotten way more than my money’s worth over the years. Exactly. I feel like the value I've gotten out of boost/Apollo/RiF is way more than i paid for them. I’m probably on the more frugal end of Apollo users, but I felt compelled to give a tip. Probably my first IAP in years but well worth the hours (days more likely) I’ve spent on this wonderful app. Thank you u/iamthatis Android user here. I've used RIF and Boost (which I finally settled on), but I've been aware of Apollo and Christian's reputation of being incredibly engaging and active literally for years. I've recommended the app to friends with iPhones when I learned they were using the native app without ever using it (with some jealousy even). Just tipped €10 through PayPal. There's no doubt in my mind that the quality of the Apollo app set a standard that other 3rd party apps were incentivised to emulate. Not saying it was the first to implement any particular feature before another one, but at the very least, Apollo was part of an ecosystem with real competition to provide the best user experience. Even indirectly, I personally benefited from it. Hell, r/scp got a freaking threatening email. It's insane. Lemmy and kbin looking more attractive by the day. Instance admin does a /u/spez? Just up and join a different instance. inb4 I get shadow banned for mentioning the competition. They even threatened r/piracy. It’s definitely not because they support piracy it’s obviously a show of force. Oh it is. I’ve been here since pre-Digg, and this is that all over again, except probably even dumber on Reddit’s part. At the time, Reddit was fairly competitive if not uglier. I’ve been spending most of my time on kbin and Lemmy, and I can say pretty confidently we wouldn’t be talking about them if Reddit weren’t shitting the bed so hard. I thought I’d just quit Reddit, but I think it will take the apps turning off to really kill it for me. I’m expecting July 1 this is a very different place. Can’t even call him a cunt as he lacks both the warmth and depth  There's a level of complexity to this, Christian is Canadian.  There no chance the IPO happens any time soon. Not because of this API business, but entirely because of market conditions and the inability for Reddit to monetize the 95% of users that aren’t using 3PAs. Reddit’s private investors are writing down their positions in Reddit from the IPO target. Last week Steve all but said the IPO was on hold indefinitely. Rule one about suing someone, don't tell anyone you are suing them until the paperwork is served. Wouldn't lawyers also tell them not to post publicly any further in general? If I recall, doesn't his version of the apocalypse, in which he envisions himself being in charge, includes slaves? So this guy is thinking about how he will eventually own slaves?  I did not foresee today being the day i discover a legitimate use for weird amazon dinosmut romance novels. Uh, thanks? I have the spiciest OW themed content for this. Weird fanfics centered around the robot characters in very adult situations. Or gibberish, like random characters.   To me it sounds like a massive violation of the right to be forgotten. But as the CEO wants to be Musk jr. I'm not surprised. Twitter is also not compliant with laws in the EU anymore. He's in competition with Musk to see who can lose more users, more valuation, and just plain more money. >terminates revenue sharing agreement with 3rd party >complains that 3rd parties don't share revenue with him ?????? Was the the yearly reddit secret Santa type thing? I totally forgot about that, I used to love seeing it! Always meant to participate but never did the bootlicking crayon eaters huffing paint thinner and shitting in their diapers. Deleted 6/30/23 It's the anti-protest reddit users that have been pushing this in comments though. Fuck u/spez! Is it really about the ads? It’s the user data they are after. (https://old.reddit.com/r/help/comments/135tly1/helpdid_reddit_just_destroy_mobile_browser_access) I just don’t want the lede to be buried here. This always seemed like a no brainer to me. Like, that's a home run from their perspective. Absolutely bizarre of them. Yep - I was expecting that I’d just have to be on Reddit premium - which made sense to me. That’s their charge for people to effectively have an adblocker. I still maintain this would be the best course correction for them. They’d have a ton of paying users overnight. But that would mean they were acting in good faith which I can’t believe at this point. I want to be proven wrong. I don't say this lightly, and working in product design in startups and big corporations, I know it's not easy, but.. You are in the perfect position to turn Apollo into a Reddit alternative. You have a well-liked application already in place, you are clearly a skilled dev, name recognition out the ass (for both you and the app), you would absolutely get funding right now (which is possible in the future, but the iron is red hot at this moment), and you have a seed audience ready to go. You can absolutely do right where Reddit is doing wrong. You may never get another opportunity like this. I encourage you to consider it. There’s two at the moment downloadable through testflight, Mlem and Memmy which are trying to give an Apollo like experience. They don't, but if you donate through PayPal you don't have to pay the 30% cut to apple so it's definitely still the better route.  I don't think they're at a point of caring about Reddit. The board's primary goal is to have an exit for all investors and to try to pump up a valuation before then. There is a ton of VC/PE money at play, so I wouldn't expect Reddit to "improve" or "backtrack" anything until those investors get their exit The stupidest part is that crazy-high API charges will be ignored by AI companies, who can afford to run scrapers. Which will end up costing Reddit more in the long-run, because it's relatively inefficient. From 🤑to 😵when a year from now this site’s ran on all bots. Oh well 🤷‍♂️ The funny thing is that AIs don’t even need the API to get training data, unless I’m understanding wrong? They can just scrape from HTML with a bit more effort. IDK what happened but all the tits on /r/interestingasfuck got wiped from /r/all Not to mention Elon has dramatically lowered Twitter's revenue and tanked its valuation well below what he paid for it. I mean he's been a part of shaping reddit for 18 years and still hasn't managed to figure out how to make it profitable. I think we've figured out why Is there really no way to filter individual subreddits on the official app? Lol JFC I’m for sure done once Apollo goes. No way I’m wading back into that cesspool. I have like 100+ subs filtered. An estimated (https://www.reuters.com/breakingviews/reddits-golden-geese-foul-up-its-ipo-plans-2023-06-16/) worth of free labor.  Actually, I think this whole thing has been a great investor's prospectus. Now everyone knows to avoid the IPO and short the stock vociferously. There’s also this app which looks very promising: https://lemm.ee/post/116554 and the android app. And Memmy another iOS app. 4 decent apps will be a great start.  Build a better platform and they will come. Accelerated by enshitification of the platform they are on. r/NBA users are the kind of people to get mad at the cashier when Walmart hikes up the price of cigarettes I think all sports related subreddits had complete meltdowns. While other subreddits seem to be in favor of the shutdown. So dumb.    >They’re complex to use and full of tons of inside baseball, and the whole appeal of Apollo in the first place is it’s good UI. That's the thing. For a social media site like this to succeed, the barrier of entry needs to be *really* low. Reddit is simple. You can make an account in like two seconds and get to posting. Reddit even helps you add your interests to your feed, so you immediately have a frontpage catered to your desires. The average person is not great at technical stuff, so things need to be as user friendly as possible. Looking at the Fediverse stuff, my first reaction was confusion as I figured out how it worked, and I would consider myself on the higher end of technical literacy. I imagine a lot of people look at a page like (https://join-lemmy.org/instances), get overwhelmed, and immediately close the page.  I have a feeling it won't be user data. No one said it was the users data. They asked for the api to free which means they are probably users as well. I’m betting they have financial / business info. And right before ipo. I’m waiting for Hindenburg research to short Reddit. Those are without a doubt black hat dude lol... They are trying to extort money from Reddit using an illegal data breach they did. Steve Huffman is an inept clown who has been failing upwards his entire life. Anyone who had a hand in him becoming CEO again should be very very embarrassed. He has been heavily involved in every single bad decision in the history of this site. How do you run a site that gets more visitors that Amazon and not find a way to break even? How can you get more traffic than Wikipedia and flood the site with ads, charge more on top of that for premium subscriptions, while barely providing any services above the basic platform, maintaining a minimal staff that is almost transparent in their day to day activities, and still not be profitable? What really astounds me is that wikipedia has never had ads and appears to be running a successful donation program to maintain the site. I don't know how comparable the operation costs are, but it seems like something manageable. Right? I always figured it was like a dozen people at most. What the hell are all these people doing? Yeah because they’re just going to turn around and sell the user data.  Yup, and that's where conversations about morality and ethics get really fun It's not a surprise, but it is a joke that Reddit is calling the hack "highly sophisticated" in order to try and save face. The Reddit workplace is so hostile, employees are afraid to let their peer at the cubicle know “Does this email look suspicious?” or place a call to their superior. It’s virtually impossible to get social engineered like this unless Reddit gets unpaid free labor to safekeep their internal data as well. It's like looking at the hindenburg for inspiration when making an airship. I agree with this sentiment and have been pondering the same. This feels almost more like a matter of national security than just a small-beans corporate tussle. And it's such an "easy" thing to do. Corrupt the owners of big locations like this. DDOS the smaller sites and prevent them from being able to afford to grow. It's so easy to smash through these types of hang-outs now, and I can't think of a good way to prevent it. I hope something comes around soon where I can get non-corpo news sources, aggregated by more level-headed viewpoints. r/all isn't perfect, but it feels more natural than the slop I'm randomly getting fed by Skype's new feature, etc. ETA: One thing to be aware of the evolution of is the corporate squatting of these subreddits. Converting from fan-run to industry-run. It likely has happened to some extent over the years, but I fear how bad it can get moving forward. Deleted 6/30/23 It's one thing to idolize Musk but I have to be skeptical if Spez has the amount of job security that Musk does as Twitter's **owner** or that Zuck does at Meta with his ownership stakes. Honestly the desperation to push Christian into the ground just seems like the VC faucet is about to be turned off unless he monetizes the site more. But given that there's been no fruitful moves towards that in *the last eight years*, that should send a signal about what kind of leadership he's provided. Then again, the best PR move would have been to sit down and shut the fuck up. The only people they *weren't* talking to were 3PA developers but they sure as hell couldn't resist talking **to everybody else.** Dollar store Elon Musk Only thing I know about Thiel is that he's a far-right PoS and one of the most dangerous ones.  I would have paid reddit to be able to keep using Apollo. Reddit is bluffing hard, they can barely keep up with responding to all the communities they threatened let alone moderate them all... Too bad people fell for it. But Reddit will pay either way. They must already be paying for their stupidity, otherwise they wouldn't care. I'm on Kbin, and really the only think keeping me here is wanting a few communities to move over. Particularly for niche things. Especially since, as you said, it does give a bit more power back to the people who truly keep things running by making this all but impossible to happen again. I’ve been digging Squabbles A prolapse then?  He can still be a plaintiff in a US court with jurisdiction over the case (either a state court in the state Reddit is incorporated or has its principal place of business or a federal court in that state, assuming he’s suing for over 75k). The cause of action (probably state law defamation) would still provide him with relief even though he’s Canadian. Defamation is pretty clear cut regardless of borders isn't it? It doesn’t matter how fancy your faucets are if the water company has shut off service to your house. *"So, anyway... Reddit discontinued their entire API"* After killing 3rd party clients, there isn't much of a reason to keep supporting an API with anything but the most basic functionality. I honestly love how point-blank the libel is - to the point that Spez knew to apologize immediately (but through "Reddit" and not directly lmao). The evidence is black-and-white - although I don't work on any cases like this I think things are in Christian's favor there. Man who runs a company relying thousands of unpaid laborers yet can’t turn a profit expects to manage unpaid laborers to survive? He already failed with the lowest stakes imaginable. Chuck Tingle smiles upon you this day, child. I don't like the last line. Don't want Reddit undoing everything that has a specific tag associated with it. Can't wait for both to get fined billions or blocked in the EU I have bad news for /u/spez because Elon has money to burn in way bigger piles than spez. Yeah, Secret Santa was the main event **Fuck u/spez, what a two faced toad!!!!!** Could they not collect the user data on the backend, and provide full APIs (which I assume they already have to run their apps) to anyone to create custom front ends? Or is there some data they are wanting that's only available with the front end? It has never been about the ads. They are trying to turn the data they have about all of us into a revenue stream. They want to charge enormous amounts of money to Google, Microsoft (Open AI), and others who are consuming the largest amounts of data. spez and the rest of the crack team are just using this as an excuse to kill off third party apps in the process. The API pricing is way far beyond the COGS (cost of goods sold), but Google and others will still pay because it's too important to training their large language models. Then require user data to be shared in order to be allowed to use the api. It makes 0 sense. I think at this point it’s personal because u/Spez got called out for his lies by Christian who happened to have receipts and showed zero of his own. Mlem is still barely getting off the ground and missing a ton of stuff. I haven't heard of Memmy, I'll have to give it a try. They have, they seriously fucked up and miscalculated their IPO. They thought the app growth they saw in early 2021 would continue beyond the pandemic, didn't want to IPO into a weaker tech market and chose to wait, and then they began bleeding app install users, losing some to people that just didn't stick around, and many lost to 3rd party apps because their own app is so dreadful, and now they can't IPO until they can show a few consecutive quarters of app install growth. Fidelity cut their valuation from September of 2021 until May of 2023 by 41%, dropping their $10B valuation in late 2021 to under $6B less than 3 weeks ago. The board knows what's up, the investors know what's up. No investors are making money unless Reddit IPO's or gets rolled up in a huge private sale (will never happen). I bet the board feels that they don't have a choice, with their value plummeting, it's doubtful they can pull another round of investing, they have to stop the app user bleeding, IPO as soon as possible before they run out of money and the wheels come flying off this bitch. Spez is a moron, yes, but he's the sacrificial lamb here, I'm sure that many very smart and successful people have told him that this is the only way he gets to cash out, which is a pretty big risk for him, because it's one thing to go out completely hated but swimming in millions, and it's another thing to go out completely hated and broke. This has nothing to do with the users or the community anymore. The goal was killing the 3rd party apps all along and converting as many over to Official Reddit app users as possible, which was why the API fee structure was never meant to be affordable, it was intentionally structured to cost more than any 3rd party app could make, it was a poison pill. I'm guessing that they only look at some raw traffic metrics and chalk it up as their metric for success. So as long as traffic is stead or rising, they don't care. Problem is that most of the traffic is bots and lurkers, so as soon as the good content creators and good mods leave then the site goes to shit and traffic drops like a damn rock. Of course they won't see this yet because this is the tip of the iceberg and they're not smart enough to know that it is. No one questions the person jumping to their death from a burning building. Desperate acts speak to desperate people. Either that or everyone is blinded by money I’ve been saying this since the start. It’s a total red herring. Nobody is going to use the API for any serious language modeling with these prices. Residential proxies cost nothing in comparison. Reddit has been completely scraped anyway. You can download an entire copy of Reddit and train your models on it without making a single API request. Also because they don't even want more data from reddit than they already have. Everything posted to reddit since the public release of GPT2 is polluted by LLM output and is therefore unsuitable as training data.  The AI companies have already ingested all of Reddit. They’re not going to bother with scrapers. They have what they need already. What do you mean, it's already mostly bots with just a few users sprinkled in. Heck you might be a bot. Maybe I'm a bot. And that's with the garbage tools the mods currently have. Imagine taking even those away. Barely more effort, but a helluva lot more bandwidth. edit to add: Like, an order of magnitude more. Using the API to pull the front page is <300KB, compared to the browser/scraper pulling > 2.5MB, with an adblocker.  They're still there just lower down the page, that's normal behavior as newer posts replace older posts. The post that was at the top of /all for a little while today is now at spot 115. The tits on r/all got wiped and replaced with this very post *chef's kiss* Musk is doing such an awful job that even his supporters think he's either an idiot or doing it on purpose to ruin Twitter. u/spez really looked at that and decided to model his own career on it It's way more than that. The researchers said 3.4 million dollars was the lower bound estimate. As in, it's at least that much but likely could be significantly higher. They sampled 126 subreddits, and extrapolated from that to reach their final number. And of their 126 subreddits, the mean subscriber count was only 350,000 with 70 posts and 700 comments per day. Their largest subreddit was somewhere in the 15,000,000+ subscriber count, which might not even make it into the top 30 subreddits. They also didn't include time spent reading and responding to modmail, and time spent deliberating actions. Or time spent configuring automod. >As mentioned earlier, mod logs do not include all moderator activities. For example, replying to moderator mail and deliberation, two types of moderation work reported in prior work (Dosono and Semaan, 2019; Gilbert, 2020) do not appear in mod logs. As a result, our estimate of moderation duration is designed to be a lower-bound estimate. Isolated mod actions were assigned an average of 5 seconds of deliberation time, and if they spent more than 60 seconds considering something, that time wasn't counted as it was regarded as a separate action: >we capped the interval between two adjacent actions’ end timestamps at 60 seconds3 or less. Put another way, if 60 seconds have elapsed between two adjacent actions taken by one moderator, these two actions will be classified as belonging to two separate streaks. Because no prior actions exist for isolated actions or the first action in a streak, we assigned each such action the median value in how long the corresponding moderator spent on performing this type of action in general. Finally, we calculated moderation session duration at the moderator level by aggregating our dataset. So it's an interesting study, but I definitely don't think it should be used to claim that the value of moderator labor is only $3.4 million per year. That's essentially the minimum it could be. And they have some missing moderator duties that they don't account for. https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/2205/2205.14528.pdf That 14 cents a month adds up to that yacht and that second mansion/ bunker Steve Huffman can't live without in upcoming apocalypse. It's crazy how much the internet regressed with all these web 2.0 and social media companies that were supposed to be improvements on the old ways. That's because 90% of r/nba are 14 year old nephews As someone who feels like an an ancient ass old man at 27 on that sub, idk why all the zoomers there aint more mad at reddit for it lmao. Not only. Was shocked during the blackout when I saw how /r/pcmasterrace was unwilling to participate because "hurr we use pc lol" as if these changes are just about the api and not the direction reddit is taking. Throughout this process I can't help but have "First they came" in the back of my mind with all this division. >I think all sports related subreddits had complete meltdowns. While other subreddits seem to be in favor of the shutdown. > >So dumb. Dude, the hockey subreddit was downright shameful. some of that, especially in /r/nba's case, has to do with the unfortunate timing of the blackout which coincided with the last game of the NBA playoffs. Basically the sub's busiest time of year. Then again, the meltdown was great in that it finally put to bed the notion that the "normal" Americans would love to protest unfair things happening in their country, but they can't do that as they can't afford to miss work, or to travel to a major city. I always see that mentioned whenever there's a discussion about protests in other parts of the world... If only we weren't living paycheck to paycheck we'd surely stand up for the right thing and fight the good fight! Yeah, my ass, here's as righteous a cause as you can get, with receipts and all, and you couldn't even lay off of one stupid website for a couple days. Sports fans? Having piss baby meltdowns? Never Edit: the testosterone dweebs are here I believe that r/soccer was mostly chill about the shutdown. The nba fans attitude was extremely embarrassing Eh read the comments on any unlocked protest thread. There are plenty of people who don’t care That, and Mastodon, as much as I want to like it, even makes something as simple as a retweet a needlessly complicated affair. And I think that's a bit of a problem when retweets are a major way to find people to follow based on the people I already follow. The fediverse is looking to solve a much more long term problem of centralisation. It has to happen eventually and where the public understanding is of Mastadon, Lemmy etc now in comparison to a year ago is staggering - my friend's elderly mum granted doesn't use Mastadon but she understands it, understands why it exists, understands the ideas. Fediverse platforms are in early adopter stage with a technological barrier to entry. Slow growth and slow raising of awareness are to be expected. It isn't for everyone right now, but usage is exploding relatively speaking, as is the pool of people available to contribute to it. I have kind of resigned myself to accepting this as the grey age of reddit. Unless the plug is literally pulled or it becomes a fascist hellscape like Twitter has become I'll likely stay on here for now, but I'm a card carrying skeptic and I will be continuing to advocate for the transition away. The only thing that could fuck this up now is if spez gets fired and the API changes are all reversed, in which case the momentum is going to be killed. So it's a bit of a win win through that outlook. The whole pick a team aspect of it is a huge turn off for me. It's just a bunch of little fiefdoms I know nothing about that I have to choose between before I can use it. Is centralized better? I don't know, but I haven't been impressed with federated stuff so far. Needlessly confusing is a good way to put it from my attempts to understand it. It's not user data. Why wait? I'm shorting them hard ASAP. - Not profitable (social media isn't, for the most part) - Extremely competent user base when it comes to adblockers, majority of traffic is NSFW subs, site gets a lot of bad press for hosting certain communities etc. so its not like they will ever have success in the advertising vertical. - Extreme reliance on unpaid labor (mods) to run the site, who can at any moment basically let it all go to shit. - User base hates the company now more than ever. - Company is carrying an extremely high headcount for the product they provide. - Speculating this one, but hosting their own video player has got to be bleeding them dry Market is going to eat them alive the first trading day. "But I like what they're doing, so they're grey hats." Ellen Pao got a LOT of shit while she was CEO, but in my own personal experience, I enjoyed reddit the most while she was at the helm. Let's also keep in mind the countless times he has taken a bad decision and made it exponentially worse Including selling it for a fraction of what it would have been worth if he waited another 2 years LOLOL I am utterly baffled by the 2000 people headcount. What are they doing? Seriously. Dunham's Sports which have an entire chain of retail stores and 400M in revenue also has a 2000 people headcount... (random example -- but I happen to wear Dunham shoes). I can't even imagine, really not.  It does sound like they were able to replicate Reddit’s internal intranet and somehow get uers’ 2FA credentials off that. So it was medium sophisticated compared to the “fake Google/Outlook UI” standard fare. But yeah I mean no hacking the mainframe or whatever the fuck Steve thinks sophisticated is. "they had a picture of the Nigerian prince and everything!" Thank you. It’s SOOOOOOO EASY to spot phishing emails. Literally ask a question. My entire job is remote, the entire company minus audio engineers is remote. Never had this issue cause we can go: “does this look right?” >The only people they weren't talking to were 3PA developers but they sure as hell couldn't resist talking to everybody else. And talking out of both sides of their mouth, apparently. Spez and his team's handling of this has been a burning clown car affair from the jump. Yea, it sounds like they are running out of money, gave spez an ultimatum, either make it profitable or we will replace you. Spez said he can handle it and then proceeded to go on NBC and shit himself > It's one thing to idolize Musk It's really not. To anyone who is informed Musk is both a terrible businessman and a malignant liar. There's no informed person with a working sense of empathy who thinks Musk is anything but a scumbag in every aspect of his life. One thing he might not realize there's different levels of wealth too. Spez is rich but he's not *rich* rich. He's not spend billions to tank a company for fun rich. Elon can buy himself a private island with a private military and live on the Island Nation of Musk if he wanted to. Spez can buy a nice car. That's why Elon DGAF about his public perception at all. Spez isn't rich enough to completely check out of reality already. fuck u/spez > Zuck does at Meta with his ownership stakes. Zuck is making money hand over fist. He’s fantastic at his job from a soulless capitalist perspective. It’s because they don’t think they have anything to lose by not talking to developers. And sadly, they are probably right. Spez said in the leaked email that this episode is no different from other previous episodes like this that were noisy temporarily but ultimately were quickly forgotten by Reddit Users. MOST Reddit users, just like most citizens of our democracy, are unengaged and oblivious to this situation. They don’t understand what an API is, don’t think it impacts them, don’t bother reading about Spez’s leadership style, don’t care. And those that do understand and care are unable or unwilling to meaningful mobilize any action that has impact. The few users going to other platforms are not going to make a difference. The vast majority will keep coming back here because for now this is where the content is. The ability to scroll Reddit is more important to most users than standing for what is right. I mean, he did moderate r/ jailbait for several years before owning reddit, and that says a lot 😬 Maybe the VC money dried up suddenly because of the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, and they're burning through operational reserves. Has anyone explored reddit's investors and sources of funding? Every year it feels more and more like Peter Thiel's specialty is identifying, growing, and funding things that make society worse  What Rupert Murdoch is to television, Peter Thiel is to the internet > Can someone make a viable alternative? Lemmy and Kbin. Hell it takes *weeks* for them to answer on r/RedditRequest to turn over a sub with a completely inactive mod or remove a completely inactive top mod. And thats situations where someone is literally *directly asking* to moderate the sub. Now they are threatening to remove the mods of random subreddits that are protesting when no one is even requesting to take over that sub at all? Whos gonna mod them all? Spez himself? I'm in the same boat. I haven't set myself up on kbin/lemmy yet, but the main thing that would make me keep visiting reddit is those extremely niche hobby subreddits with good information/community. Otherwise I'm out. The communuty make reddit a good place to visit. Not reddit itself Even that still has a pulse. And far worse for defendants, since it can result in lengthy sentences of incarceration, which are enforceable by the US Canadian extradition agreement. It all depends on jurisdiction. For example, if someone in the US were target of defamation from some entity in Russia, there is absolutely no way Russia is going to play ball in court. In this case, between the US and Canada, there's a fair chance that he could pursue something and have it hold water since US and Canada are in good relations and Reddit operates in Canada so they have liability over there. Spetsnaz is not a smart man. In fact, he was incredibly fucking stupid to think that slandering Christian and Apollo was a smart move in his official capacity as CEO. He's opened himself and the company to a lawsuit. It's incredibly easy to prove he knew the accusations he made were false and that makes his comments rise up to malice as he was intentionally seeking to arm Christian's reputation. There's also financial damages from the API fuckery, since Christian was proactive in asking about changes and made business decisions based on information that reddit disregarded and outright lied about. And they've lied about a lot because this is just an effort to kill off third party apps. They'll wish they paid 10M for the app by the time he's through with them. Fuck u/spez *WITH* a two-faced toad. There absolutely is, one example is user input data. Things like how long someone lingers on a post or what they’re scrolling habits are. All data is useful in one way or another. Some of this you could probably infer from API calls but it’s easier and more accurate for the app to collect it directly. Jan 21 2014 – Jul 1 2023; 9 years, 5 months, 12 days. This comment/post was removed due to Reddit's actions towards third party apps and the blind community. (https://lemmyverse.net/communities) 🫡 They won't. They'll just blast the servers with scrapers. The user data you can collect with your own proprietary software is way more valuable than anything 3rd parties will give you. Especially when you consider there are developers like Christian with backbone that would probably say no to anything too over the top data collection wise. It for sure feels that way.  But if it was about converting users to the official app, every just half-smart executive would have tried to acquire Apollo. The outcome would most likely have been better and (given this mess now) cheaper. This is very insightful and spot on. What a cunt. > I'm guessing that they only look at some raw traffic metrics and chalk it up as their metric for success. It's just like the D&D disaster that wizards of the coast had to walk back. They were content to weather the backlash against their ridiculous licensing changes until the D&D fan community started to mass cancel their subscriptions to online D&D - then the company backed off immediately. The company genuinely did not give a shit until the they saw massive monetary damage being caused by their decisions. Money is the only metric that these companies will listen to. If the money continues to flow, they don't care about how many people they'll piss off in the process. Reddit the company doesn’t need any actual revenue from this change. All they want is a legally defensible reason to list “1.6 billion monthly active users at $3/month each - just like Facebook guys, we promise!” for their IPO without going to jail for outright fraud. Their actual monetization doesn’t match that *per year* and this is how they pretend that they can just turn on the “AI money switch”. Once they’re on the open market, the actual viability of the monetization is a problem for the “investors” (suckers). Any link or info? I never thought of that. I guess it's like post-WW2 steel having radiation. Someone should copy paste this comment chain in ChatGPT and see what we get. I am hoping the wannabe Musk spez train gets completely detailed. Dead internet theory is hypothesized to have occured in 2016. “Everyone on the internet is a bot except for you.” Used to be a joke. Now, it’s just the truth. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead_Internet_theory I’m a bot He’s a bot She’s a bot CAUSE WE’RE ALL BOTS HEY!  Honestly, I think that’s the best protest yet. Make the admins moderate the site.  Sounds like, as a straight woman, I should go upvote some tits 🤷🏻‍♀️ I see it now. But that post is only 6 hours old and has 60K upvotes, which is higher than anything else I saw between it and the current top post (which is this one). Scrolling up a little a post in /r/Animemes has 5000 upvotes and is 10 hours old and is showing ahead of the boobs, and I made my comment shortly after seeing the boob post and coming here so in only a few minutes it's been shot down the /r/all queue dramatically. Definitely not normal behavior Or 50 year old assholes They grew up being fucked by corporations and living in a 24/7 instant-gratification cycle. It's a generation of consumers with more following after them. Take away their sources of dopamine and they'll lash out. Granted this isn't unique to GenZ but it's very prevalent with them. You can also ask just about any teacher to see how fucked we are.  Hockey was pretty bad too, complaining about not celebrating the knights victory. I really pity anyone that has to celebrate their teams winning it all on Reddit. What are they threatening to leak? Way ootl here &#x200B; cause spez has never lied. When Hindenburg releases a report they go HARD. they take no prisoners. it would just help the process along. You forgot - unstable CEO making damaging and potentially legally liable comments on a daily basis during a period of crisis and - reliance on <0.1% of users to actually create, upload, and comment At least on Tiktok everyone is uploading their own crap. On Reddit, everyone lurks. Reddit themselves has admitted this. They rely on a tiny portion of their userbase to keep submitting interesting things and writing funny comments, and if they go, the site will look different to say the least. >Extreme reliance on unpaid labor (mods) to run the site, who can at any moment basically let it all go to shit. Worse. Management that doesn't even seem to be aware of this. It has the same feeling of B tier middle management deciding to fire a whole team of people for a minor infraction then whinge about how nobody wants to work when surprise, there's not thousands of applicants chomping at the bit to be mistreated. If this were a brick and mortar store I would expect it to fold within 2 years. Completely nooby in finance, where do you short it if it's not tradeable yet? Hey, I've been known to cheer on pirates from time to time Yep she got done dirty by reddit, and it was very clear from day 1 she was set up to be a sacrificial lamb. Yeah anyone looking at his history and thinking "hey lets give this guy some more power in our company" is clearly also a moron. I wouldn't trust Steve to run the milk and brownies stand at a cannabis convention, he would find some way to fuck it up and lose money. At this point, I don't know how he isn't shaking confidence in potential investors. As Christian points out, there are so many ways this could've been handled better, but it's like Spez keeps running to the press to stoke the flames and make things worse. This whole thing was only tangentially related to moderation at first (losing mod tools and them leading the protest), and Spez has demeaned and essentially declared war on them. Now there are subreddits that weren't even involved in the protest (like (https://www.reddit.com/r/television/comments/14dhom9/a_response_to_ceo_steve_huffmans_public_criticism/)) that have put out statements denouncing his comments on the "landed gentry". If this is how Reddit handles this crisis (by pouring gasoline on it repeatedly), how willing are people going to be to trust them with their money? And that's if you believe him that it's only 5%. Either it is 5% of their traffic and he's making a big publicly embarrassing deal about 5% lost ad revenue, or he's lying about it only being 5% of their traffic. > Spez and his team's handling of this has been a burning clown car affair from the jump. And if he's willing to lie and mislead these 3PA devs this blatantly, imagine how much he's probably been lying about making the site potentailly profitable at some point. > And talking out of both sides of their mouth, apparently. More like the other end of the digestive tract. >That's why Elon DGAF about his public perception at all. Unrelated to your greater point, but he absolutely does and it seeps from every word he says. It's why he bought twitter in the first place, he's an insecure baby and thinks the world is against him. "If conservatives become convinced that they cannot win democratically, they will not abandon conservatism. They will reject democracy.”—David Frum And the iOS app they are making for kbin looks a lot like Apollo with its simple interface. Does kbin have an app yet?? That’s the only reason I haven’t committed to anything else. As of the 30th, I’ll be off Reddit for sure. I was originally an alien blue user until Reddit bought it and turned it into a nightmare. Why not re-build those communities on lemmy/kbin? They can be simultaneous - but at the very least it means that as reddit's enshitification continues, when more unpleasant changes come down the line those communities have somewhere they can continue with less disruption in the future. Steve huffman, prolapse without a pulse  fuck u/spez with a two cocked, four balled toad. No one is thinking long term. Investors are thinking about their money they've invested, if Reddit runs out of money and can't raise more, they're out collectively $1B. If they can get the IPO to happen, even a meh IPO raises enough to keep the lights on for years and the existing investors can choose to cash out our ride the train longer. No, they've acquired alternatives before to kill them, they need users on their own controlled app where they can standardize the huge amount of data collected on you and completely control your ad experience. If they buy Apollo and just force those users into the official app while the API is still free or affordable, those users will just move to another 3rd party app, or a new Apollo will spring up to take it's place. Everyone thinks reddit is copying Twitter, but this is really reddit trying to emulate Meta's model. I just hope the community doesn’t end up having a short attention span for these issues. If they decide in a few weeks that they’re bored of protesting, then reddit wins. Honestly, it looks like does and company are just looking for that massive paycheck. As long as they can keep things afloat till reddit goes public, they won’t care about anything else. Feels like a botched pump and dump imo. They were too hasty and now there is too much scrutiny. Fucking morons can't even scam well. Woah woah woah, hold on fella, we're not supposed to know the villains plan until Season 2 https://the-eye.eu/redarcs/ Full archive from 2005-06 to 2023-03 is ~2 TB but you can also just choose to save individual subreddits.  And I know there are people can’t wait to shit everywhere. Tits on r/all is harmless in the grand scheme of things. When it’s half racial slurs, that’ll be a lot different. If every sub was posting tits they would be overwhelmed easily A great set of tits are what unite us all. You can be the gayest dude or the straightest women, doesn’t matter. You see a great pair and you’re like “damn, those are some nice tits.” I'm 51, actually. >it’s not that surprising. that sub has a lot of stupid takes. any time women or don cherry come up it’s just a bunch of morons showing their whole ass. It's misogynistic as fuck, that's for sure. In fact, I am only subbed to r/hockey and r/chess and they end up painting a very.. umm.. poor picture of the reddit user base. r/all is refreshing by comparison. 80GB of zipped data. The hackers themselves haven’t even looked to see what’s inside. https://techcrunch.com/2023/06/19/hackers-threaten-to-leak-80gb-of-confidential-data-stolen-from-reddit/ >Reddit spokesperson Gina Antonini declined to answer TechCrunch’s questions but confirmed that BlackCat’s claims relate to a cyber incident confirmed by Reddit on February 9. At the time, Reddit CTO Christopher Slowe, or KeyserSosa, said that hackers had accessed employee information and internal documents during a “highly-targeted” phishing attack. ***Slowe added that the company had “no evidence” that personal user data, such as passwords and accounts, had been stolen.***  I love company names that are contextual in their business.  You don’t. You can’t short a stock that’s not on the market. A classic example of a (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glass_cliff). Oh hey Pao is even listed there as example.  He would get high and give out the brownies for free until he remembered - hours later - that he should be selling them. To compensate for the loss, he would charge 20x what competing stands did and then cry that no one wants to do business with him. That's a point I hadn't considered before. Christian definitively proved Spez is lying about the "blackmail", and this post further shows he's being dishonest about things. If I were an investor or potential one, I think that would give me pause on how much I can trust him with what he's telling me about the site. Well that would be my hope that those communities would eventually shift over(some already have) But unless the key posters and users make that jump it then becomes a new community. Which in itself isn't bad but there's some communities where some posters/moderators really do a lot of heavy lifting. So I'm not sure it would be the same. It feels like a weird middle ground right now where everyone is deciding where to go and what to do, but I'm hoping in a few weeks/months that will be sorted out I hope that’s the timeline we are in lol >Spez getting extradited to Canada to go to prison Oh fuck I just came I literally cannot think of a funnier outcome fuck u/spez he’s a greedy little pigboy Reddit can’t emulate meta’s model unless it wants to pay millions per year for moderators. The obvious fix to all of this was requiring Reddit gold/premium to access the API (and give it free to moderators for subs they moderate). Charge for API bot access with a “useful community tools” tier that gives it for free to things like the reminder bot.  Oh shit! So I might actually be able to get my comment history past the 1000 limit? Well, damn. One of the reasons I’ve been hanging onto my account during this shit show was because I’d been trying to figure out how to scrape that sort of stuff. *dusts off **grep*** Yeah, yeah. I know I’m lame. But I’ve got 15 years worth of activity on Reddit. Hate to admit it but it’s been part of my life and I used to like looking through what younger, dumber me thought while getting drunk a couple time of the year. I ‘member when Reddit didn’t even have subs. Gonna miss the place. This reads like they trained ChatGPT using 1980s school textbooks and those cheesy educational PSAs/videos. I’m surprised they didn’t add “the more you know….” at the end, though I suppose that one is probably trademarked. What I got from GPT-4 and a bit of tweaking (ordering it to be casual, snarky and shorter): > Lol, we've gone from "everyone on the internet is a dog" to "everyone on the internet is a bot." As for the Reddit apocalypse, blame the humans behind the curtain, not the bots cranking out memes and shitposts. ¯_(ツ)_/¯ Another one: > Honestly, I'd take bot chaos over spez's drama any day. At least bots aren't out there playing games with whole communities.🍿 r/simpsonsshitposting doesn't have a mod anymore. I started posting Simpson porn there. Edit: Corrected sub name. I used to configure windows to pull backgrounds from the sfw porn communities. There is probably still a write-up on here of how to do it. The comments would always say wow your putting a lot of trust that the top of earthporn or spaceporn or whatever isn't ever actual porn. But I pulled from the top, not new. So for 13 years actual porn has never been an issue. But maybe now it's coming to an end. If a bunch of people's background wallpaper switch to boobs because their rss wallpaper feeder from 12 years ago didn't see the reddit fail coming, well, that's something.   NSFW subs aren't monetized. So it's a loss of ad revenue. Aight, this sounds like a plan.  I just hope they have good shit, and aren’t just gonna set rank and file Reddit employees up for identity theft. User names and passwords? Oh no! I've already deleted the equivalent of 30 years of posts and comment from here. I just have this bullshit account to counter the Reddit employees who pretend to prefer the official Reddit app Hindenburg Research is a short selling firm that specializes in doing multiyear research reporting into companies that that allege are frauds, scams or greatly overvalued. Before they release the report they take a short position the stock. They’ve done reports on Nikola Motors, Adani Group, Block and many others. And yes their name is a reference to the Hindenburg disaster. Which as they say was a 100% man made disaster that could’ve been avoid. Just like the companies they go after. Check out their about page for a list their reports and outcomes: https://hindenburgresearch.com/about-us/ Reddit has been normie for a while now tbf, that's why the time feels right for spez to do this I think. Last few years it went kinda mainstream and attracted the tiktok generation who just download the official app and wade through memes. I hate Meta's model.. and while i use the official app out of convenience, the greed and behavior I'm seeing through all this makes me want to abandon the platform. Esp as a moderator, something i started doing for fun that is clearly being exploited.. the obv fix is to pay us. u/spez and co. Want free labor while they collect millions off the platform. They profit off every post, comment, upvote, user, moderator and sub while i spend a large majority of time here basically working for free while living in poverty. Not to mention the destruction this will bring to the reddit community as a whole. Their decision will completely ruin the last social media platform i use. Which i use primarily for news, research and connection. 2/3 i can just use Google. But finding people to connect with?? Looks like the rest of 2023 gonna be pretty lonely. I'll miss you smartasses. won't someone think of the millionaires?! Yeah. The people who think ChatGPT is a good writer, are not good writers. Because it suuuuucks. Try this one on for size, generated using a more recent, advanced model. BTW, keep in mind, in a couple years, this ability could go 10x: > Lol, you guys are really taking this bot talk to a new level. Okay, so I've been fiddling around with the GPT-4 and I've got to say, the leap in quality is honestly wild. It's like comparing a flip phone to a smartphone. Still, you can sometimes catch it out - the comments can be too... polished? Does that make sense? > Anyway, it does freak me out a little when I can't figure out whether I'm chatting to a human or a bot, but hey, that's the way the cookie crumbles these days. > And this talk about Reddit being run by bots - now that's an episode of Black Mirror waiting to happen. Or some surreal sitcom where we're the audience to a robot drama. Cheers to the bot-run future! 🍻 -ChatGPT 4 Yea, but an accidental screenshot of a Coke logo next to a pair of tits isn't gonna mean the end of any business relationships. A Coke logo next to a bunch of slurs and a picture of a dead child on the other hand... r/the_donald is going to takeover r/all again 😞 Not worth much, cloning reddit the site is easy  Guys like them are one of the few groups who can consistently move markets downward to make money shorting. >Months later, around December 2020, private investigators claiming to be journalists attempted to discern the identity of a key Nikola whistleblower, offering a meeting under false pretenses. The whistleblower worked with Hindenburg to turn the tables, with the founder of Hindenburg pretending to be the whistleblower and secretly recording the meeting with hidden camera and audio equipment, outing the investigators and the intended deception. Sometimes real life really *does* take after the movies. Wow.  How do they avoid market manipulation accusations? I do have to say whenever I log out to view as default the content is fucking trashy as fuck. I use it to write scenery descriptions and come up with interesting D&D encounters. It's great for generating combat stats on the fly. But without a real human DM controlling it the experience would be hollow. Pretty sure that user just used model 3.5, as model 4 generates startlingly convincing writing. Don’t take my word for it, though. Just wait a few years :) That makes too much logical sense except the States are way too puritanical to think that way.  But cloning the existing structure... Like the whole reddit but void (subreddits, users subscribed, etc) coding the interface is easy but getting all the backend to work at this sort of scale is hard. they would be pissed It's rumored that u/Commercial_Piglet975 is all the alts. You think you're talking to someone else, but it's always u/Commercial_Piglet975. Heck, maybe I'm just an alt of u/Commercial_Piglet975. You never know... It’s really impressive what they accomplish. The nikola report by them is a great read for those who want to see inside the company. You’re welcome! I’ve been slightly obsessed with reading their reports for the past week. They’re really impressive. They get them all the time. Specifically they called out Adani group that they should file a case in the US Courts but discovery would be “very interesting”. Why would they get one? As long as it's facts, not made with insider information, there's nothing wrong with informing the public. The amount they make on the short position can pay any fines for that. I have been feeling super sick from my chemo dose Monday and hadn’t really had much of a laugh or giggle because of the nausea feeling. Thank you for making me forget about feeling sick and making me laugh. I feel like there are probably easier ways to get a guy. A+ for effort. The romantic in me just absolutely loves this. Excellent story. You probably made their morning after a long and boring training session. A+ job inviting them to the bar. Please update us after they show up!   "Now remember, this isn't a pool, in the wild you will encounter things you don't expect......" Honestly, i find this quite admirable and wholesome! Kuddos to you for being an empathetic and courageous person! So are you guys engaged now? Update if they show up for the beers! This post is amazing. You surely made their days, too. This is hilarious. I can just picture you swimming with your eyes closed towards them haha. Don’t be too embarrassed, it probably made their morning. So did you get married to this guy yet?! I mean, that's an adorable first time we met story. I never realized there was a sunken town in Jocassee, and I've lived here for all but 8 years of my life. Might have to go check that out this summer. I'm not very far from there at all.  This sounds like the beginning of a rom com. If you guys get married, I want an invite. Also l, could we get an update when they show up (or not) for drinks? Hey, I am a Paramedic and I want to say thank you and I really appreciate your efforts to save someone's life. That's not given and besides this being a really wholesome story, I hope next time you will do your best again to save someone's life. This world needs more people like you. Also don't risk your own life to save someone's else. Some say that her undies are still wet to this day, long after leaving the lake. This story made my morning. You're amazing! Even though he didn't need saving you tried. I really hope they go in for the beers and y’all hit it off. Cutest how I met your mother story ever Read the first 3 lines of this. Stopped and went back so I could read this entire post aloud to my Navy husband and we both chuckled the entire way through. Too too funny. Hubby and I met in a big New Year’s Eve crowd when a friend of his spilt wine on him while trying to flirt with him... instead he turned to me and asked if we could swap pants, I said “no but I have a spare skirt in my bag”. End of story, I was in love from that moment and we are now together 13 yrs, married 9 with 2 kids and still in pure bliss love. Go find your Merman little Dragonfly.... 🧜‍♂️🧚‍♂️ This sounds like a romance movie and I’m here for it. I ship it tbh. Was he cute though? You are all kinds of awesome. Thanks for sharing this. Fwiw, if a jogger had risked her ass to jump in and save me while I was scuba diving (whether I needed it or not) , I'd buy her as many overpriced beers as she liked. You are awesome. You won't see this comment among all the others, but I had to say you were awesome and did the completely right thing. If the universe has any sense of fairness, some one will appear when you are in a time of need (even more than the job and couch are now). Stay safe and thank you. Well, as “Mommy how did you and Daddy meet?” conversations go, you’ve topped us all. Now you’ve just got to get him to put a ring on it. Good luck, OP! Feel like am watching a movie at how well you told this story, next thing I expect is for him to show up at your bar for a drink... you guys back and forth some jokes at one another... 3 years later you are married, and a daughter on the way. Congrats you are now a part of military lore. The story of the mermaid that saved an entire platoon will be tald forever mire This story is brilliant. I really hope there is an update when they turn up for a beer! Does your lake not have any of those rubber rings posted along the shore? I think you're meant to throw those rather than swimming out to save people. Maybe they're only in the UK, i don't know. This is way better plot than a romcom. Honestly I hope you two link up again. "Him and his clandestine crew" I fucking love you > My brain blue-screened I got a couple of good chuckles out of your story, but this did me in. I like your writing style, do you write for a living or have any stories posted anywhere that we can read? I’m poor but if I had an award to give, you would be my first. Thanks for the laugh (: Probably had more than a few eyes scoping you out underwater before they breached the surface. I hope he has reddit and sees this. We need more updates lol Former military man here. Guys in training often DO NOT have the ability to do ANYTHING not specifically training related on their own schedule, so if he (or one of the others) no-show, don’t take offense. Give him/them TWO WEEKS to make an appearance. (The weekends might also be full with G.I. stuff.) But, may I say, you are one hell of a person to jump in at a moment’s notice to save a life. He/they must know that, too, and that means they will love you, even if they don’t know your name. Actually you gave them motivation Where is the lake? I would like to pay a visit to that sunken town . This could be the meet-cute we all need!! You have to tell us if they show up for a beer. That is the best opening scene to a date night movie ever. I wish more people would jump first and think about the consequences second in situations like this. You have noble instincts and there is nothing embarrassing about that. If this doesn’t get a “and now we’re dating!” update I’m gonna ... idk probably forget about it but I really want that for you! And that's how I met your father. As an ex-coastguard in a very busy naval area. You'd be suprised how often this actually happens. Not necessarily jumping in in their skivvys, but certainly calling us after seeing 'a body' in the water. Worst thing is, we lias with the navy for SAR efforts. But due to confidentiality they where unable to tell us whether or not it was a training exercise that we where blundering into. There was an arrangement where they where allowed to notify our launch authority whether or not a training exercise was being undertaken, but they where not allowed to disclose the nature of the exercise, or whether it involved bodies in the water, due to this our due diligence dictated that we still had to launch & chase up the call in. It's gone as far as the navy launching a helicopter to aid our search pattern, and after 30 minutes of searching alongside the naval helicopter for the naval SMC to call their helicopter back. Fortunately they used a very specific language when calling their SAR team back which essentially told us we where hunting for naval divers, without them actually saying it. Saving this to read the update. I hope he shows! My fingers are crossed!  Oh man! I'm shipping so hard for a good date out of this! Fun story. Bot, Remind me in 24 hours. Is that how the bot works, I’m bad at millenialing Read story to gf while sittin' on the sofa. First words out of her mouth; "but gurl, did you hit that? Where is the follow up?" You are heroic and hilarious! Hope the guys showed up. You seem totally worth getting to know. Hail from Cola myself! I still remember reading this post around a month ago when you first made it. It honestly gave me such a laugh and I was so excited to check in on your edits throughout the day to see if your merman showed up at the bar. I'm so glad everything worked out for you two in the end. Every now and then I come back to reread this meet cute if I'm feeling down and to see if you've posted any updates. Thank you for sharing such an unforgettable moment, I wish you guys all the best! *Reads story* *clears throat* HAHAHAHAHAHHAHAAHHA *inhales* HAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHA So this is my first day on Reddit...don’t entirely know how this thing works. I seriously just figured out that the up arrow is equivalent to a thumbs up. LoL. And no, I’m not entirely old enough to be a #Boomer. A N Y W A Y ... reading about your adventure today has absolutely made this very long road trip so great! Can’t wait to hear the updates! Also, googling underwater towns in SC This would be a perfect ending if she came back in a few years to say they’re now married. I also find this hilarious as I live 30 minutes from Jocassee Everyone on tifu tells stories like they just got an English degree This is some sappy rom-com shit right here. Someone in Hollywoo would certainly option it. So glad I got to see Edit 6! I’m a professional editor - if you ever write the book everyone in the comments is clamoring for, I’ll edit it for you for free just to find out what happens next! Well done, OP. Also, can’t wait for the “Reader, I married him” edit in two years’ time! This was a fantastic read. Thank you for sharing and keep on exercising! Did you get awarded a medal? Man im so shipping you guys In your defense if someone is drowning they cannot scream because fight-or-flight instincts take over and focus on breathing and keeping the head above water and the body alive. Here is an awesome read that I found on a fishing forum about drowning, how to identify it, and what to do if you think you see someone drowning: Original source: http://mariovittone.com/2010/05/154/ The new captain jumped from the deck, fully dressed, and sprinted through the water. A former lifeguard, he kept his eyes on his victim as he headed straight for the couple swimming between their anchored sportfisher and the beach. “I think he thinks you’re drowning,” the husband said to his wife. They had been splashing each other and she had screamed but now they were just standing, neck-deep on the sand bar. “We’re fine, what is he doing?” she asked, a little annoyed. “We’re fine!” the husband yelled, waving him off, but his captain kept swimming hard. ”Move!” he barked as he sprinted between the stunned owners. Directly behind them, not ten feet away, their nine-year-old daughter was drowning. Safely above the surface in the arms of the captain, she burst into tears, “Daddy!” How did this captain know – from fifty feet away – what the father couldn’t recognize from just ten? Drowning is not the violent, splashing, call for help that most people expect. The captain was trained to recognize drowning by experts and years of experience. The father, on the other hand, had learned what drowning looks like by watching television. If you spend time on or near the water (hint: that’s all of us) then you should make sure that you and your crew know what to look for whenever people enter the water. Until she cried a tearful, “Daddy,” she hadn’t made a sound. As a former Coast Guard rescue swimmer, I wasn’t surprised at all by this story. Drowning is almost always a deceptively quiet event. The waving, splashing, and yelling that dramatic conditioning (television) prepares us to look for, is rarely seen in real life. The Instinctive Drowning Response – so named by Francesco A. Pia, Ph.D., is what people do to avoid actual or perceived suffocation in the water. And it does not look like most people expect. There is very little splashing, no waving, and no yelling or calls for help of any kind. To get an idea of just how quiet and undramatic from the surface drowning can be, consider this: It is the number two cause of accidental death in children, age 15 and under (just behind vehicle accidents) – of the approximately 750 children who will drown next year, about 375 of them will do so within 25 yards of a parent or other adult. In ten percent of those drownings, the adult will actually watch them do it, having no idea it is happening. Drowning does not look like drowning – Dr. Pia, in an article in the Coast Guard’s On Scene Magazine, described the instinctive drowning response like this: Except in rare circumstances, drowning people are physiologically unable to call out for help. The respiratory system was designed for breathing. Speech is the secondary or overlaid function. Breathing must be fulfilled, before speech occurs. Drowning people’s mouths alternately sink below and reappear above the surface of the water. The mouths of drowning people are not above the surface of the water long enough for them to exhale, inhale, and call out for help. When the drowning people’s mouths are above the surface, they exhale and inhale quickly as their mouths start to sink below the surface of the water. Drowning people cannot wave for help. Nature instinctively forces them to extend their arms laterally and press down on the water’s surface. Pressing down on the surface of the water, permits drowning people to leverage their bodies so they can lift their mouths out of the water to breathe. Throughout the Instinctive Drowning Response, drowning people cannot voluntarily control their arm movements. Physiologically, drowning people who are struggling on the surface of the water cannot stop drowning and perform voluntary movements such as waving for help, moving toward a rescuer, or reaching out for a piece of rescue equipment. From beginning to end of the Instinctive Drowning Response people’s bodies remain upright in the water, with no evidence of a supporting kick. Unless rescued by a trained lifeguard, these drowning people can only struggle on the surface of the water from 20 to 60 seconds before submersion occurs. (Source: On Scene Magazine: Fall 2006 (page 14)) This doesn’t mean that a person that is yelling for help and thrashing isn’t in real trouble – they are experiencing aquatic distress. Not always present before the instinctive drowning response, aquatic distress doesn’t last long – but unlike true drowning, these victims can still assist in their own rescue. They can grab lifelines, throw rings, etc. Look for these other signs of drowning when persons are in the water: - Head low in the water, mouth at water level - Head tilted back with mouth open - Eyes glassy and empty, unable to focus - Eyes closed - Hair over forehead or eyes - Not using legs – Vertical - Hyperventilating or gasping - Trying to swim in a particular direction but not making headway - Trying to roll over on the back - Appear to be climbing an invisible ladder. - So if a crew member falls overboard and everything looks OK – don’t be too sure. Sometimes the most common indication that someone is drowning is that they don’t look like they’re drowning. They may just look like they are treading water and looking up at the deck. One way to be sure? Ask them, “Are you alright?” If they can answer at all – they probably are. If they return a blank stare, you may have less than 30 seconds to get to them. And parents – children playing in the water make noise. When they get quiet, you get to them and find out why. Edit: Thanks for the award! My first one! Now this is wholesome and funny. Keep saving the world girl, with your actions and words! I love Lake Jocassee, live over in Spartanburg county. Glad everyone is safe :) I laughed so hard at this. Hey, at least you were being a wonderful person, going to save someone n all That's quite the meet cute. Maybe you should buy him a drink! I like your style of writing. I could actually imagine everything as I read. Is there a name for this style of writing ? When I try to write it comes up as uninteresting and dull. I want to able to be write like this. If you are spectacularly stupid as you claim to be can you share more of your TIFU. This story is the greatest thing 2020 has given me so far. Thanks for taking us on the journey, and good luck with the rest! Perfect conclusion to a damn delightful story. Knowing when to limit what you put out there for the world to know is important. It’s just satisfying to know something positive came of such a wonderfully silly story. Sending all the positivity and goodness right back to you! Dear Hollywood, If you are listening this is the best opening to a romcom that has been pitched in years. Can a studio exec get on making this movie, and giving this girl a good payday for her story? She could use it and it would make for a far better movie than you usually create. Netflix, I’m looking at you. Signed, A lot of Reddit users that also subscribe to Netflix But can we get another update Honestly that’s pretty awesome on your end After all the craziness that's been going on, 10/10 for making my day just a bit brighter. Good luck in future rescue attempts. The world needs more people like that, hopefully they took you up on the beer You should get into writing. If I read more books that had situations like this story I'd die a very happy person. "This is yet more proof, men, that the women will be throwing themselves at you after you complete your training!" I have to admit, this incident was a hell of a motivator... 🤣 Lake Jocassee!! I love it up there, the lake is so beautiful! And I think I know the exact lake-side bar you work at haha. So, when's the wedding? This just brightened the living HECK out of my day!!! Thank you, you amazing confused human you This is the setup to a cheesy romantic comedy. Let us know when he shows up at the bar with his friends to 'get a beer' before going on a quirky love roller coaster with you that leads to temporary heartbreak and ultimately love. So from TIFU. To TIF? Thanks for the final update! I really admire your ability to know the difference between real life and cyber world. Although I’m sure everyone here is all happy for you, those attention mean absolutely nothing for your personal life. I really enjoy the read and appreciate the joy you share, and I’ll leave the expert stuffs for experts to solve :) Just a heads up, you’re probably gonna have to invite us all to the wedding this is some main character shit door memorize grab steer attractive ossified innate aspiring entertain squash When you said sunken town, I knew this had to be Jocassee. I feel the need to jump off the Hwy 11 bridge now into Keowee, then head up by world of energy. If you date any of them you have GOT to update okay?  this sounds like a movie plot What if he/his buddies open reddit to see this HAHAH Did you give him mouth to mouth also? That'd be like a win/win/win for a navy guy. Squids... ya gotta love 'em. Aye good on you though I had a friend drown in lake Cooley not to long ago so good on you for still going out to check. 1. He showed up 2. He brought a wingman instead of the whole crew 3. He's already taking your side 4. Has a good sense of humor Ya'll better exchange ALL your info at the barest minimum and here's hoping it goes all the way! Edit: I've kept this post open for 7 hours to hear part 5. So tell him from me (reddit stranger with 9 years prior military) that he better jump on this!!!! Username does not disappoint lol. Good on you for being the type of human we need in these times. Much Love💛🤙 I'm just here for update 5. This is the cutest. Late to the party but wow what a rollercoaster ride of a story ... laughed and laughed and so happy to hear he turned up. One of the best post ever! Aw man your story made my day. I keep coming back for your comments and updates. You seem like such an awesome person and I hope this situation turns out the best way for you. You'll have to invite us all to the wedding :) sending greetings from Europe. Thank you for the Updates! Reading about how he actually DID show up yesterday and that you're starting to get to know each other makes me happy (I've been checking in for an update but wasn't actually expecting to read it!). It's very considerate of you not to share more information about him, but in case you actually start dating I would love to know how he reacts to this Reddit post! How to save a life: No one : You: This I'm convinced it's destiny and you just had to meet him. Did he find this post yet OP? Update tldr? I'm a little late to the bandwagon but it was nice to be able to read all the updates at once. This was probably my favorite post I've seen on tifu. Thanks so much for sharing with us, it is a hilarious story with a happy ending that brought a big smile to my face :) Edit: please give us another update!!! I NEED AN UPDATE! Are you still seeing the merman?! \> They were cadets or recent graduates from a military college, here for the summer. \> **an elite military scuba diver in training** \> He’s training for pre-dive school (?) and since I am an expert googler, I’m guessing that means combat diving Some of these things don't add up here. HAHAHAHA, keep us updated with how this story unfolds please This is the opening to every romantic comedy ever! I hope they show up! This is adorable. Sounds like the beginning of a romantic comedy. Hopefully he's cute and single and you just met your soul mate. Lol You can save me from drowning anytime You didn't fuck up, you heroed up! You saw someone who looked like he needed help and you went in there to save him. The world needs more people like you!! I have a similar story btw. I'm an first responder in a semi-big town. We got a call in the middle of the night. A hiker saw a guy trying to drown himself in a lake. We took it seriously, ofcourse. Called in a helicopter, a boat and everything. Came there and saw a fisherman with these thighhigh rubber boots on looking confused AF. He was just night-fishing and wading the water. The hiker felt pretty stupid but we told her she did great by calling us! Why oh why would you deny the tow? Next time say yes. Rescue at sea is when he, the rescuer, wraps his arms around you, pulls you close, and all the fish start singing and dancing, and then you two start floating on top of a fountain as the sun glistens in the spray but your hair is totally dry. This could be the beginning of a Rom-Com where y’all fall in love after an awkward first meeting. Workshop it. This is the meet-cute of a romance novel I would definitely read. So, let me summarise the rest of it. At first, they don't come to the bar. With COVID, rank says the guys in training should limit their interaction with the general public and they are not allowed to come. So, you spend a pensive shift becoming more and more disappointed. But as you walk towards your blue beat-up pickup truck, keys in hand, you hear a movement in the gravel. It's the guy. They call him #1. He has snuck out to tell you why they didn't come. It's awkward. It's tense. It's awesome! You're falling in love. Next day, the team gets a mission and that requires a woman with a very specific hero complex to go undercover and save the kids in a small town from the bottom of a lake in Rwanda (shut up, it's fiction). Trouble is, in the \*whole of the military\*, they can't find the right woman for the job. Lightbulb! You're recruited and fast-tracked through a gruelling training program. But oh no - you can't fraternise with one of your team. This is the sexual tension part of the romance novel where arbitrary thing keeps the couple apart! Over the next couple of weeks (while the kids in Rwanda... I don't know... hold their breath or something) muscles you didn't even know you had, turn to fire as you train your ass off with a bunch of hot, sweaty guys. You put all that sexual frustration into the training and impress everyone. When it's time to go, #1 pulls you aside, breaks the rules and kisses you passionately. Then he says that you don't have to go. That he's in love with you. He says it's going to be dangerous and he wants to keep you safe. Indignation! You brush him aside; you aren't afraid of anything; you're annoyed that he's treating you like a child. (This is the get pissed off with each other / fight section of the romance novel). You refuse to look at him on the trip over. When you get there, despite all the careful planning, it all goes to hell. The planning is all wrong. The place is wrong. One of the team dies in a harrowing display of pg13 rated tragedy. \#1 injures himself protecting you in a dazzling display of stupidity - the exact type of thing military types always say is GOING to happen if you deploy men and women together. You and #1 are stuck out there. He's seriously hurt, he asks you to leave him, but you won't. He just saved you. You're dam well not going to do everything you can to return the favour! You don't want to leave the kids either. He begs you to just save yourself and that makes you even more annoyed. So, grumpy and determined, you guide him through the forest terrain. You happen upon the real location, and there are the kids. Down there, in whatever freak of human depravity brought you here. The rest of the team are there too, but communications are limited. #1 is finally coming around and has learnt what a determined badass you are. He encourages you to go for it and gives you a knee shuddering good luck kiss, against all the rules. You do the all the daring, adventurous, insane feats of bravery, and the mission is a success. But when the choppers arrive to take you away, you come under heavy fire. As you fly over the place you left #1, he is gone. You go home. Broken. Lost. Months pass. You can't stay in the military and see the same faces every day. The ones that look at you with that slight frown that tells you they miss him too, and they know what you've lost. It hurts too much. You return to the bar. You return to your life. The other guys come to see you occasionally, but they are like brothers to you now. One night at the end of your shift, as you walk back to that same beat-up blue pickup truck, just when you're finally looking to move on with your life, you hear movement in the gravel behind you, and there is #1. He's got a cast and some bandages around his head, but it's him! He had to bug out of his hiding spot, but he was still alive. He crawled across the entire African continent, made a raft and sailed back to the states. The only thing that kept him going was you. Queue kissing, and marriage and 7 kids. The end. You're a national treasure Omg this is so cute and awesome and you've given us hope that 2020 might not be such a huge sack of shit year. Hope you guys get married xx That is absolutely the best yes yes yes no no no yes yes YES story I have ever read. Amazing, and good luck and happy hunting. Reading all this was such an excellent break from everything going on in the world right now. Thanks for sharing as much as you did. I hope you don't delete this post! I feel like this post could have a legacy as Reddit lore, something that people will reference years from now in comments about totally unrelated topics. (Now that I think about it, all the other viral posts I remember were about bad relationships or weird as fuck behaviors. More doomscrolling, right? This story is sweet and wholesome and so unlike all the other stuff that goes trending. Rare moments in these crazy times.) Good luck with everything. P.S. If you ever marry this guy, you should pull a Jane Eyre and write this as your final update: "Reader, I married him." Edit 6 did not disappoint!! Best of luck. Thanks for the fun story. Good on you for clamping off the updates to preserve privacy. And good luck going forward! I’m gonna start acting dead in lakes now I want to see you post in a couple years together that you’re married. Because that would be a great story to tell your kids. Gonna follow you and see what happens (assuming you post updates lol) This story is gold! Will you update if you guys end up dating? I’m hoping things work out for y’all Awww!!! I love this and I just knew this was going to turn into a Hallmark movie. 🤗 I wish you lots of luck in your budding relationship. Hopefully it’s still going! 😬 What an awesome experience!! Can you do another update in the future? Hehe Thanks:) This is such a cute and romantic story, I really hope in works out for you. You sound like an awesome person! OMG ARE YOU GUYS STILL TOGETHER??? I dive at Jocassee all the time. I can only imagine his surprise. *chuckle* were they at the boat ramp? Soo... Update? Please update us if this turns into something further this sounds like the perfect fanfic and i love it This sounds like the beginning of a romance novel! I hope they show up at your bar and you get to fall in love with the man you tried to "save" and sometime in the future he actually ends up saving you from something that would only happen in fiction haha. So all I have to do is look like I'm drowning and wait? Why had no one thought of that before?! Anyone else wanna road trip to SC and be a bar fly when OP meets her sexy divers? Are you willing to post an update after beers? Sounds more like main characters of a romantic movie meeting for the first time than a FU. How I Met Your Father Honestly? The fact that he was razzing you is a sign of respect, and I bet they were impressed both with your rescue attempt and the fact that you refused help getting back to shore. It's one of the ethos of elite military soldiers that they never quit, and part of how they drive each other is by egging each other on. You earned crazy respect. I read your post to my wife and the first thing she said was, "omg they are totally going to get married." I looked at her like she was crazy, but now we've been checking back religiously for updates because we want him to show up, because you are totally getting married. Haha This is the first time I’ve read something so wholesome on this subreddit, so thank you and I wish you the best This story was better than any tv show or movie meet-cute. Thanks for the smiles OP TLDR TIFU by meeting my soulmate This! Is the Best thing I've read in So Long! Brave, sweet girl, best of luck to you now and always!! can't wait to see this on the big screen! when is the movie coming out? I hope OP and mysterious blue eyes are still cuddling each other in bed until now I am so invested now!!! OP, PLEASE tell me more happened after they showed up at the bar! Another date lined up? Non-dragonfly underwear revealed?! Wedding rings picked out?!?! Can I write a romance book based off of these happenings?! Lol pretty sure Reddit would fund your entire wedding. Also, morning after update pls. Edit 6..... ??? I know there’s got to be more. Wow, I after reading all the updates I feel so invested in this story. I desperately want to know if there was a second date.   She just met her husband by being completely in her head and and jumping in full speed like she was in a movie. I love this 💕💕💕 And I say “met your husband” because he’s in the military and young and single, oh he’s ready to be married. The inner romantic sap in me is just hoping that y’all eventually fall in love and get married. This is a great story This is rom-com material, absolute gold! Shows how good of a person you are too, instinctively diving in to save someone without much thought for yourself! Great story! Hope things go well for you guys, no matter which direction it goes! :) I will always remember this story. I was chuckling and smiling like an idiot reading the entire story and it’s just so nice to finally hear something positive and nice! I really enjoyed your story, I hope you know I am super happy for you! This story makes my heart melt This writes like a movie plot. I desperately hope that the next update would be a confirmation of you guys' first official date. Great story. I rarely laugh out loud but you made my morning! I hope you feel better and kick it's ass! DM if you ever want to hear a less TIFU episode of my life and I'll do my best to work a giggle out of you. So what you are saying is that being spectacularly stupid is not gonna help me pull? My wife tried to drown while scuba diving on our third date. We got separated when she had a runaway ascent when too much air went to her feet. She tried to ditch her tank but it was still connected to her drysuit so it ended up ripping her regulator out of her mouth. When I got her to the surface she had inhaled a large amount of water and was foaming at the mouth. Several minutes of rescue breaths and a trip on a life flight helicopter later she made a full recovery. Our relationship progressed quickly after that. Ten years later and we’re happily married and have a 2.5 year old daughter.  Yea, military guys are notoriously easy to catch. He’s probably out buying the wedding ring right now. As a dude this sounds like a great way to find a date. The floaties make you seem more impressive plus the dark helps to hide not only the floaties but any physical imperfections. Combine all of that with the adrenaline of the situation and you have a HIMYM B story. I love all of you. I've actually spent more time with you guys than with the mysterious man from the depths. Although, you both made me laugh. I'm seeing them married by the lake in a couple years after he proposes on a diving trip. Then having walks with their dogs. Then picnics with their children and then walks with the grandchildren. That mysterious vibe made my day. I hope they show, but either way I have this bombass story that no one will ever believe to share with all of my friends when they come back to school. I promise you this story will be told, from the divers perspective, multiple times throughout their career. An exciting story like this during a simple training mission is the stuff of legends that gets told multiple times, over multiple beer, throughout the career of the diver and his buddies. He did say, "Bye, savior" as I walked away. I'll take both. > you just tried to own it nothing else to do. I did howl after I got out of earshot. > Now remember, this isn't a pool, in the wild you will encounter things you don't expect...... Next up in the training..."5 tips for keeping wildlife (and women) away from your pool" ” like cougars” Dude, I appreciate it, but you don’t even know the half of it. I was wearing a raggedy-ass, elastic-showing pair of cotton undies, covered in neon dragon flies. Only you can’t tell that they are dragon flies and they look like penises with MASSIVE, glow-in-the-dark turquoise blue balls. These are the type of undies that get their own clause in the pre-nupt. My ex has never even seen them. Oh, god…the hot rush of shame. 1 - a woman sitting at a bus stop in Australia who people ignored and incorrectly assumed she was drunk because she was indigenous...she was in fact a well respected elder who had had a stroke. 2 - anyone who has taken Psych 101 would have learnt of the dangers of Bystander Effect and the case in NY where a woman was murdered. During investigations it was found that many people heard her screaming for help but all assumed someone else would help. Too many more examples of tragedy because people assume others will help or because we don’t pay attention to our surroundings or we assume someone is fine. You did the right thing. Never put yourself in danger but if feeling embarrassed for a day means you have a clear conscience knowing that a stranger was ok and you didn’t leave someone’s friend or relative in pain or worse - it’s a small price to pay. Edit - Thanks for the updates/re-education on the bystander effect. Hijacking to throw in my annoying soap box PSA: Please don’t jump in after someone in the water unless you’re a trained rescuer. Like OP mentioned- it is often a lot harder / farther than it looks and dragging dead weight or, worse, a struggling victim, makes it 10x harder to swim with one arm. This is how my mom died when I was a kid- so it’s important to me to mention it. Jumping in after someone when you’re not qualified or equipped is the fastest way to turn one victim into two. Yell at them. Throw them something that floats or that they can grab onto so you can pull on them. Call 911. But don’t jump in after them. Still trying to get into his flight path. Bro, don't get my hopes up. He's probably flashing those hella cute dimples as he swaps off this humiliation story with his LT girlfriend as I type this. My life is pretty average: broke college student, job waiting tables…surfing couches, and while it can be a skilled professional sport, it doesn’t touch his 5G level manifestation from the shadow realm. I’m reeling since being slapped in the face with something so unbelievable has me stumbling to recover. >My life is pretty average: broke college student, job waiting tables…surfing couches, and while it can be a skilled professional sport, it doesn’t touch his 5G level manifestation from the shadow realm. I’m reeling since being slapped in the face with something so unbelievable has me stumbling to recover. Fo real- it's not every day a frogman gets to come up and eat a dragonfly... Thanks for making me re-visualize that shit-show. I physically cringed again. Not, yet, but you're invited. Hell yeah, I want to see him again, but mostly because I have a million questions. And I want to see more of him then the black wet suit and mask covered face. I was vibing the shade he was throwing. His humor is my kind of spicy-I appreciated his enthusiasm for sarcasm. Dude, your MSMC. You better not be one of the lurking meremen messing with me. Or maybe...you should. Glad my cring-a-rific morning is making your day. I'm LMAO, but what choice do I have? > Hey, I am a Paramedic Then let me say THANK YOU for saving people everyday. I hope your staying safe and if your in my area I will buy you all of the beer you can drink. There is always one in the bunch Is she the Stig? Who knows. Maybe he still needs saving. I'll need a second look to decide. Me too. At least blue eyes should show. I did TRY to save his life. Nice, I love wholesome stories in wholesome threads...nice to hear how well it worked out for yas:). He was covered in neoprene and a mask, but I liked what I could make out. Cute dimples, chill, funny. Very sexy voice. Fit. Plus he was rocking all of that mysterious vibe. Yeah, I want to see more. either that, or an action movie where these special ops guys keep an eye out for the brave college girl and show up years from now when she finds herself in need. Hoping he feels the same way because I can spot him like 1. And he better nurse that bad boy all night. ha I'm seeing them all, friend. Sincerely, thank you for the kind words! Let's work on a first date...and kiss...then we'll see Oh, you skipped the sex part. Let's not skip straight to the kids. We'll need years of practice before the kids, for sure. I would not revere a legacy more than this actually. It has a beach area where most swim, but I was in the untamed wildernessy part, running the trail beside it. Right back at you, but now I'm more terrified of his crew all showing up. Front row to haze me. No, not a writer. Hoping to be a product designer. Your comment is cash to me! No need for awards. Way to make it worse. Motivated them to watch for a well-meaning, one-woman invasion at all times. Sly bastard...trying to out me? It's very beautiful. Do you dive? If so, slide into the DM and I tell you because there is a basketball course down there too. And a ship...and other stuff. Actually, I may need to take up diving to see for myself now that I say it. Lake Lanier in Georgia apparently has a sunken town underneath of some sort. Hard to meet anyone these days. Been a long dry spell and even the hope of something new is exciting. > You have noble instincts something stinks, but I don't think it's my noble. Seriously, thank you for the kind words. With all of these people wishing me well, and on a site about karma, it's be a total let down if I don't get one more look at the man. I'll take "that's how i met my next date" for starters I understand the challenges, but this sounds unnervingly complicated. One of the other comments said he may not be able to if he is in the military, so I'm already developing the excuses to cushion my ego. I hope to see him again, though. Wow. I guess that makes us friends now. > I'm shipping so hard for a good date me too, bro. Thank you. The prince is really very much my prince. End of the summer brings some changes, but right now we are living in the moment. It is a very bright spot in these times and I'm very grateful. Be well! RAMBO? Now, everyone's user name is making me think that my dudes from the deep are rolling into the chat to mess with me. If this is you, blue eyes...bring it! well played. You made me laugh with you. This comment makes me happy. Reddit can be a great place, but like everything there are some terrible people here too. AskReddit has some post on what to know when you start out. > keep on exercising there is a joke in here, no? Yes, I got the "budget-friendly and hideous panties award". The "I think she's a good sport or a hot mess" dimple smile. And the "God, how did she think she was gonna say me if she can't dog paddle herself out of the drink" chuckle. I'm sure more are coming. I will be VERY decorated with bling! I'll keep pretending to. Keep that positivity flowing yourself! The whole area is straight fire for lakes. I never think my "incidence" are TIFU worthy. This one tipped the scale. I don't think I have a writing style. Typically do more design/technical stuff, but really not a writer. <3 Thank you You, my friend, are officially my agent. We can sip some fancy drinks in So Cal with the wheel- barrels of cash you land me. I confess. My life is a comedy. ;) Dude, please don't out me!!!! Let you know My peps in the house! If they do, maybe they will slide into my DM and help a girl out. I thought it was frogs. M2M is planned for later, if he has the guts to show...and he's unattached...and covid...aw shit. Oh, I'm sorry. That's terrible and I'm sorry if anything about this hurt. I’m glad we can all laugh together. The world needs a bit more of that! He found it just about as soon as they all came out of the water :o Just for you...things are great with the prince of the shadow realm. He's kind, sexy, thoughtful, strong, intelligent...pretty perfect. ;) I see him quite a lot, but we will both be headed in different directions in the fall. Not sure what that will mean, but we are enjoying each other for the time we have. > Lake Jocassee >They were cadets or recent graduates from a military college, here for the summer. Georgia Military Academy and The Citadel are closest. VMI, Virginia Tech, and Marion are a bit further away. Texas A&M, New Mexico, Valley Forge, and Norwich are a bit far. But many programs do do some form of underwater training, especially if it is before sending cadets to a specific school. I would not call it "elite", though, more of a "don't embarrass yourself, show competency and familiarity". We've made it a week. I guess that's a start. Haven't scared him away, yet. He's a pretty tough man, but I have a posse of redditors on my side to keep him in line. ;) Full steam, baby and thanks! Yes, but I might be sad. Just one funny, humiliating story. That's all it takes. And a willingness to share it with the world. Thanks. Finding it funny how many people are still seeing this Lol you really are a chaotically cheerful pancake if this thread is any indication hah. Wholesome Nah it definitely will, but you can dial it back a little bit if that effort is too much lmao  AT least now you're past the embarrassment of getting undressed in front of him the first time. What they mean is that fishing for dead guys in the water is setting the bar too low. Good luck! Piggybacking on your reply in hopes that you see it: This is a fantastic fuckup! Please update us if they show up for a beer!!! You could be future Mrs Merman! They should be trying to recruit you Not as extreme, but I broke my wrist snowboarding and then the ER on one of my first dates with my now husband. It's the helplessness that gets them! > Ten years later and we’re happily married and have a 2.5 year old daughter. Read that as 2.5 daughters at first... Skimming... Wife... Drown... Third Date... Was like, ‘Carole Baskins number two!’ Glad I stayed and yay for your happy ending. Well, it was that or the V6 Charger at 25% interest... Happy cake day! Thank you for this awesome story! Is it cringy? -for you, absolutely. But to me I think you're awesome for immediately going full Baywatch mode to save a stranger. Also, as a guy, a random girl in her underwear coming to save me from a watery grave would absolutely make my week! Seriously, what guy would be disappointed by that?! I really hope they come get drinks and you live happily ever after! Be sure to update! Do edit the post or make a new one in case you get hazed. This post is memorable for being so utterly chaotic with a touch of embarrassment (well the bottle of embarrassment has spilt but we're turning a blind eye to that ) and you seem to be such a wholesome and humourous individual and we're hooked to this now. (Lake, fish hooked haha dad joke time) You're a wonderful story teller OP, you should probably cash in on that somewhere. And also.. I absolutely love your username. Hope you have a great evening! hahahah, tell me you got his number (or instagram or whatever people are using these days) at least... idk how it’d work but it’d be so cute if he left the ring in a box at the bottom and while they’re diving, he prompts her to pick up the box and proposes when she surfaces and opens the box or something 🥺 Yep. Me too their labrador is a bit silly and tried to steal food all the time, but who isn't. Excellent way to think about the potential outcomes! If my experience with military guys is any guide, I’d say there’s about a 95% chance that they’ll show up to the bar if they actually have time off tonight.  They will tell that story for the rest of their lives every time the meet up regardless, and that is awesome. CheerfulChaosPancake and ScubaSteve sitting in a tree. K I S S I N G! Please update us on the wedding plans. Oh boy this just happened right now, kinda? I’m in California you’re in SC so that means... well you know.. the weird time thing. So I would also love an update later, cause this sounds like an amazing beginning to a happy love story! Guuuuuhhhhhhh!!!!!! Dying! This can NOT be the last time you see each other. Ok editing to add: This ends in one of two ways. Option one: The year is 2030. OP is in a rocky, unfulfilling relationship with a guy that takes her for granted. She is visiting with family by the lake, the same place where she used to couch surf in college. Lost in thought, she decides to go for a run by same lake. Distracted, staring out at the water as she hoofs with great purpose, she trips comically and tumbles over the ledge, into the murky water. Her embarrassing yell could be heard for miles. Cue military merman, who happens to be in town visiting his buddies, coming back to the lake where they used to train. Recently divorced from a skank ass bitch who cheated while he was overseas being heroic, he needed a guys’ weekend. While staring out into the open water, he sees OP’s great demise, and his training kicks in to high gear. He dives into the water as OP flails, making quick work of the familiar lake. He reaches OP and says, “are you okay?” Eyes meet. Flashback moment. Serendipity. Merman couldn’t get the night off that day 10 years ago and has always wondered what happened to his attempted rescuer. Feels like fate. He asks her to dinner - she agrees because, duh. Breaks up with shit bf as soon as she gets back from her run. OP and merman are engaged within 6 months, happily ever after etc etc. Option 2 - merman and his bros show up tonight and henceforth commence a love story that will rival The Notebook. There are no other options. By internet law you have to get married now. sorry it's the rules. Why wasn’t this part of the story! It’s important we know every single word said and every gesture made to come to ridiculous conclusions. The romance authors and readers are reeling right now. You guys have no choice but to get married. BTW: You sound like an awesome person, OP (and have an amazing sense of humour) Or so you hoped you were out of earshot 😂 Which was likely caught by the microphones of the hidden combat surveillance team, which you never spotted in the trees, who were conducting dual training. "Here we find the American Combat Diver. When looking for a mate, the male will swin out in the middle of the lake and pretend to lay dead. The male can spend an entire night in the water waiting for a female to spot him from the shore. The female will spot the male and quickly strip to their underwear and swim out to rescue him. Once the male sees the female in the lake struggling to stay afloat, he'll come alive and ask if she needs help. If the female isn't interested, she'll curse at the diver and swim to the shore angry and embarrassed. If the female is interested, she'll accept the offer and the male will escort her to the shore. If any other Combat Divers surface, the female will scream loudly in an attempt to scare off the other male. The two males, seeing that the female has accepted the offer to be escorted to the shore, will both laugh together in harmony. Once the female is ashore and risen from the water so that the male can see her full body, she will ask the male if he would like to have a drink. If the male declines, he'll swim back out to the middle of the lake and wait for another female. If he accepts, he'll remove his diving outfit and spend the whole day preparing to meet the female in hopes that they'll have sex." Military guy: "So a fit, smart, witty student with a sense of humour threw herself in the water this morning. Took a bit of grief really well and then invited us for beers. Don't know whether to go cos she had weird pants on". His mate: "you're going" If you end up dating one of the guys, this could be a hilarious story of how you met You had the original intent of saving a life undies be damned. This did make me laugh a bit but your intentions were good and maybe you've made some friends out of the ordeal. At very least everyone is ok and it's a good story all around. Well granted, it does feel like a cheek burning embarrassment scenario. I’d probably be dumbfounded too if I was on the receiving end. Just wanted to highlight a silver lining! You seem like someone I could be friends with >neon dragon flies. Only you can’t tell that they are dragon flies and they look like penises with MASSIVE, glow-in-the-dark turquoise blue balls Gotta find a pair for the wife... She would LOVE those! Did you know that Gatorade up the nose as you are trying very hard not to laugh actually burns a little? You’re still pretty awesome. I would be doing a Mom freakout. Not a Black Widow dive. Dragonfly panties! This story made my day, thank you! TBH my face is burning hot with second hand embarrassment right now, but I'm literally laughing out loud. Omg I spit my sandwich out Just to let you know, not a damn one of them remembers what was ON your underwear.  Eh, I'd still swipe right lol Least you made some friends with this unforgettable experience. Your writing is astounding and reminds me of David Sedaris. I hope you continue to fling yourself into hilarious misadventures and post about them. If you have cock and ball panties that should be a priority to show any man Not all heroes wear capes, sometimes they wear elastic-showing pair of cotton undies, covered in neon dragonflies that look like penises with MASSIVE, glow-in-the-dark turquoise blue balls. Omg this addition is possibly funnier than the entire story! 🤣🤣🤣 I liked you before, but now I think I love you. Funny how we all probably have a pair of those hideous undies that should have been turfed a long time ago. My mom would always tell me to make sure my undergarments weren't raggedy in case of an emergency where I have to get stripped of my clothes to be saved. I understand her point was more so for what would be my embarrassment, not that they had to be presentable for other people... yet I sit here in undies where the top lace part has come apart from the cotton part, knowing I should throw these away yesterday. The bystander effect does exist but the famous story of the murdered woman in plain daylight is a hoax : "An article published in American Psychologist in 2007 found that the story of Genovese's murder had been exaggerated by the media. There were far fewer than 38 eyewitnesses, the police were called at least once during the attack, and many of the bystanders who overheard the attack could not actually see the event. The story continues to be misrepresented in social psychology textbooks because it functions as a parable and serves as a dramatic example for students. In 2016, The New York Times called its own reporting "flawed", stating that the original story "grossly exaggerated the number of witnesses and what they had perceived"."- (https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Bystander_effect) Number 2 refers to the murder of Kitty Genovese, and the story that "38 witnesses saw the crime and did nothing" is false; it comes from a New York Times story published 2 weeks later. A number of people (not 38) observed part of the 2 separate attacks on Kitty (which happened in two locations), but no one saw the whole event. Some people did not know what was happening. Some people did intervene (a man, not aware of the seriousness of the attack, shouted at the killer to leave her alone, and the attacker fled). Others did call the police. One neighbor, a 70 year old woman, found Kitty and stayed to comfort her until the police arrived. (There are lots of derails omitted her; read the Wikipedia page for more details: Murder of Kitty Genovese: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Kitty_Genovese) I'm not saying the bystander effect is not real, but the example people most frequently cite has not been related accurately. ETA: I forgot a word. Right? I was surprised she jumped in. Even trained rescuers with floatation struggle to move a deadweight victim. Great intent, but that could have really gone south. Glad OP is safe. And I'm sorry that your mother lost her life trying to help others. She sounds like a good woman. Do you mind telling us a little bit about her? I used to be a certified pool lifeguard, and I agree completely. Recovering an unconscious person in a pool can be difficult enough, and people who are conscious almost always panic (because drowning is scary!). Absolutely don't try to jump in after people in trouble in open water, unless you know what you're doing, and is in good swimming shape. I wouldn't try to rescue anyone today, because frankly, it's been years since I swam more than a few hundred meters. You seriously have the best personality ever. He’d be a fool to not marry you! Lmao I am saving this post plzzzz update if/when they show up later :) This sounds like the perfect story some badass guy would tell the kids was *how I met your mother*. And inviting them for drinks? UPDATE  >I’m reeling since being slapped in the face with something so unbelievable has me stumbling to recover. **( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)** sounds like your date went well Were you saying anything as you swam over? Like “I’m coming to rescue you!” Because I’m 90% sure anyone seeing harf-nekkid woman swimmin’ towards ‘em, eyes closed and yelling, would have to wonder what the sweet merciful heck is going on. Pls edit the post when you end up married to him lmao You're going to have to get married at a National Park, with all of the subredditors who are going to show up. What a party! (I'm already looking forward to it!) Can I come to the wedding? I swear I won't do a long speech about how I teared up reading about the first time you guys met Please don’t wear penis glowing cotton undies to the bar. Look your best, whatever the best makes you the most confident and MEET HIM. PLEASSSEEEEEE But seriously not me. I've been out of the service for a few years. Lol, not me... Or was it? Oh god, I can’t believe I missed this comment after I’d divided out the loot. YES. I want to be The Stig. I’ll find a way to hit the apex and I must learn to drift. And soon! Sorry, I’m late to this amazing comment! You are living the beginning of a Nicholas Sparks movie... I am 100% picturing you as Julianne Hough right now. Please provide an update when they show up to the bar!  Hell yeah, go for it! If they ditch me, this is the story I'm gonna tell myself Good luck! Haha. I left the ... for you to fill in :) I would think you could make it a part-time living writing articles or essays for publication, you have a helluva way with words Likely they all "escorted" you. Underwater. You're the fucking best lmfao I did 23 years of wreck diving, 3mix gas diving, search and rescue. I need to get recertified due to a long break( had major health problems at 1 point). Used to live in FL. So when tou say Georgia my hearth skipped a beat. Missed the good old days when you turn off your dive light in a night dive and hear your hearth beat go faster. >Sly bastard...trying to out me? It's very beautiful. Do you dive? If so, slide into the DM and I tell you because there is a basketball course down there too. And a ship...and other stuff. Actually, I may need to take up diving to see for myself now that I say it. Wait, what??? I know there's three or four around the US, usually from backed up dams. But most of them were from the 40s-60s, and wouldn't have had 'ships' or, frankly, basketball courts- they'd have been fully covered up. You need to return and update us all. Keep your hopes up quietly. Don't let your ego keep you from being forthwith. My boyfriend saved me when I was being assaulted and he promised me a beer but it took him three years to show up! He was a Marine. He always told me that whilst three years of my life had gone by, coming home for him was just like picking up where he left off. He hoped it wasn't too late. Military guys have long memories. Whatever happens, if he shows or not, if you find yourself thinking about him or totally bowled over by strong feelings. Feel free to DM me, I promise I absolutely know how you're feeling. My friends thought I was crazy for holding out for a guy I'd said two sentences to for three years! But some guys really know how to make an impression. Go get him girl! x If he's a no show tonight, just take another run down by the lake every day until you see him again. 😂 Lol, I do have blue eyes, but I can assure you I wasnt at this supposed training exercise. And even if I was, I wouldn't be at liberty to discuss it... Thanks so much! I also need a much more fun user name 😄 No joke. Me being genuine. I am going through a physical transformation so i am doing what i can to promote fitness and a healthy lifestyle. Actions speak louder than words. You did what you thought was right and that is what matters. The next time someone might actually need to be saved and you will be more prepared. Reading your post reminded me of books I used to read as a kid. I have not read a book in a long time. Your small post made me fish out an unread book I have. I am probably going to spend my weekend over it. Thank You They do say write what you know. That’s hilarious! Hope things work out the way you want it to work out.  The power of Reddit is something else, that’s for sure haha Stealing this as my new username Ha- you think I have control over this level of ridiculousness? Nope, just gotta lean in and enjoy the ride. Funny how the thinking part follows the jumping part. Glad I'm not the only one Not QUITE bottom feeding, but..... I'm reading them all. Having a blast. And I demand to be called mermaid until such time as a name change is appropriate. Accept that I'm terrified to float on top of dark water, even in a lake. Maybe I would like it better in scuba mode. Too.Much.Jaws. Mine's not even as extreme as yours, but about a month into our relationship I was drunkenly racing a friend on Razor scooters and I crashed and slid down the pavement about 30 feet. He bought first aid stuff and bandaged me up. 18 years and three kids later and we're still happy! Men like the feeling of “saving their woman.” It speaks to us in a primal sort of manner. Very lizard-brain. USAWTFM just posted a SM with an Equinox at 33%. Couldn't believe it. I'm sure both sides at least got a laugh and a good story out of it. Although, I'd be slightly terrified to hear their side. Oh lawd, help me! >a random girl in her underwear coming to save me from a watery grave would absolutely make my week That would make my *entire fucking lifetime*. *And* she digs my dry humour? I'd do whatever it took to go to the bar she invited me to. I'd go AWOL. That's a Texas-sized 10-4, my friend. No, but I invited him for beers tonight. We'll see Math checks out. As a civilian guy, I can confirm odds I would show up are about 70%, and my experience with military guys matches yours, they are some unabashed, thirsty young men. Additional speculative advice: If the whole squad comes, they're hoping you can wing for them. If it's just 2-4, "drowning victim" is into you. I see a ring coming up before the next deployment, just sayin. If it was me and the guys I knew, it would be a 100% chance that we would show. Source: Am Navy vet 100% they show! Military men are beasts. They’ll clean out your liquor cabinet and still be up at 4am to run five miles. Definitely going to need an update! 100% agree with this. Knowing Military Dudes, if they are allowed out they will definitely show up! Military here. Chance is 100% I’d show up. I so hope drowning dude doesn't have a SO and you two get together. Best story ever of "How I met your mother." I'm in NC. I want an invitation. In fact, my husband owns a printing company and I can hook you up on those invitations, LOL! I know I need r/RomanceBooks here. 😭😭 There is option three: they show up. They smash. They go back to respective hometowns and never tell a soul. Not as romantic, but arguably just as plausible. please, i need options 3 to 17 by tonight. Sorry. Sorry. I didn't know the rules. He also mocked me relentlessly about my inefficient breast stroke, but if I put that in there it would draw the chads into the chat Right?! That comment could change the game. I feel like Micheal Scott analyzing Jan’s phone call. Sound does carry better underwater. It's just distorted. Bahahahaha...although I think I got rejected based on your playbook Am I the only one that absolutely read this in Sir Attenborough's voice? Hope your psych profile holds water. ha You're way overestimating military guys. It'll be more like. Guy: So there was this girl. His mate: Did she touch your penis? He’ll probably propose in a week if he’s really military I think we're all rooting for this! ... and this, is how I met your mother Everyone enjoys Carolina Phallus Fly under britches. The second act, the boys at the bar, is gonna be the real story. This is sweet. >cheek Bahahaha. I see what you did there. Yep, soggy, cotton clingin' cheeks it was for all to see I need a pair for myself! OP, where did you get your panties??! Many years ago, a group of my extended family went to a middle-of-the-woods lake to swim. I brought my 10 yr old daughter and there were some teen relatives there too. I was just sitting there under a tree when I see 2 of the teens floating face down and starfished. I watched them for a tick and they didn't move. Another tick and they STILL didn't move. I jumped up and started yelling their names, getting ready to jump in. The little assholes were doing it on purpose. They wanted to see if they could hear each other under water or something? I don't know. It was only about waist deep water, so I don't know why they were doing it that way. Everyone laughed at me. I was just like "Well, fuck man, how could I know they were ok??" Thanks for carrying some of my embarrassment for me. My face isn't big enough for it by myself. Bring it! > David Sedaris High complement right there. I am not a writer, but thank you. I call them my period panties, but yours is better This is a sentence I never imagined possible. Thank you for making me laugh. I'm having a ball with you all! Woah. Woah. We gotta hang a bit before we start swapping the L word.  You are a sweetheart. I like you I invited them for drinks, but expect a heaping side of hazing if they show...I hope they show. Lieutenant girlfriend? long term girlfriend long time GF hahaha Calling it. He's married. We might not find that out until update 3 No! Get married underwater at an aquarium with the fish! And his buddies can stand in (swim?) for him. You can dress like a mermaid <3 :) Oi! Make sure you live stream it for those of us over seas! Your a bridesmaid and I expect a tearful speech from you! Exactly my thoughts, PRAYING he uses Reddit and sees this 😂 > fill in dude! Thank you Bahahahaha omg the second hand humiliation is real It's Lake Jocassee in SC. Full town at the bottom. Old trading post.. If you have the right certification, they may let you go in some places, but it's generally frowned upon. Google, my friend. Lake Jocassee. See for yourself. I hear it's awesome. Jocassee, Keowee, and Hartwell lakes in SC are mad made. Hartwell even has old farm houses still standing under the water, and barbed wire old pastures. Oh, man. I hope I'm not waiting for years. So glad it worked out for you! There's no kill switch on awesome ;-) You sound like an awesome person Lmao '**TIFU by accidentally appearing to be dead in a lake at the crack of dawn** Title, causing a jogger to strip (almost) naked and dive into a cold-ass lake to come 'save' me, not realizing that there were ten other guys with me under the water, and we were all equipped with scuba gear. I'm a member of the military. We were doing dive training for combat operations. And a civvy thought she needed to save me in dick-shaped neon firefly panties. FML. On the upside, she was cute and the guys and I are going for drinks at her bar tonight!' So I was out jogging the other daaaay. Ferda. Ooh another friend.. whoo! ( I understand that this is polite conversation relax, enjoy the terrible humor) Alright I'm gonna honest.. I had to google what a texas sized 10-4 meant.. initially I thought it was math but.. I'm relieved to know it apparently means to agree. If you don’t update us, I will die. I want updates. This is pure joy omg All I can picture is the 'Top Gun' bar scene. So /u/cheerfulchaospancake get ready for this dude to queue up the jukebox to "You've lost that lovin' feeling' for a lip synced serenade. Are we sure they aren’t planning on recreating what’s immediately after the meme of like 5 black dudes and Piper Perri (I think? The tiny blonde white girl)? I see "Just Married" painted on the windows of a brand new Mustang, financed with $0 down at 15.9% interest. Better be a life ring!! Followed by mouth to mouth!! I am fully rooting for them to show up! The only thing knocking down the odds in my mind is if he has an SO... but who am I kidding, they probably would all still show regardless See my above edit. Maybe it will hold you over till we get an update after tonight. I’m pulling for them so hard!! Hahah yes. That’s a very 2020 option, but the romantic in me won’t accept it. If he is single, he totally has the hots for you! The fact you were able to withstand the jokes made him like you more! Sorry you got embarrassed but you are awesome for trying to save someone's life. I am obsessed with this story and i want to watch the hallmark movie about it I’m in CA so I’m three hours behind you. If I don’t wake up to an update tomorrow morning I will expire and be the ghost that throws stuff in your bar. Either Attenborough would do. "Welcome...to Frogman Park." If they show up at the bar you have to give us an update! 100% his friends are gonna playfully rib him for you "saving him" for the rest of their time serving together. I'd be surprised if they didn't come out Just like your soaked underwear Give us an update on how it goes OP You have to update us if he shows! I want an update on this if there is one ;) 1000% accurate We ARE all rooting for this! This would be a fantastic "how I met your mother" story! Agreed!!! Can we come to the wedding?! Absolutely. What a great meet cute.  You did the right thing. Don't doubt it. :) You are too funny Sorry the correct term is "as of yet unpublished writer" Yeah, when you first lose someone you're surrounded by family and friends for a few months, but after that people go back to their lives. I think we forget that just because most the world has moved on doesn't mean that those closest to the deceased have. So yeah, I try to ask people about their late loved ones so they get a chance to open up again. A Reddit comment a few years back said that if you want to support somebody after a loss, do so about six months after the fact, once everybody else has gone back to normal life. They may not be allowed to. Don't feel bad if they don't show up. Ex-military: the government owns them dinner historical office capable sand money automatic attractive chubby pet Please, please keep us in the loop. Chances are high, if only to ask you if you if you changed your underwear! Like the other dude said, don’t be offended if they don’t show, it could be for any number of reasons But good looks on throwing out the drinks idea, that’s the kind of heads-up play that can pay off! *^...but ^you ^ain't ^got ^no ^girlfriend, ^Lieutenant ^Dan.* don't you dare jinx it This thread is making my slow ass rainy work day way more tolerable. Waiting until Mystery Scuba Man shows up in the comments. I did a certification dive at Jocassee (just open water diving, not some badass military expidition), those structures are pretty deep and need even more training to go down that far. We were at the spot where the basketball court is, was pretty cool, visibility is pretty poor tho and the water was COLD, lol. But, it was November. They also have an 'airplane' and a 'dungeon' down there with skeletons chained to rocks. You my friend...I'm totally stealing this as my new life moto. Thank you Aw, thanks, stranger. Right back at ya And that, kids, is how I met your mother. > Ferda fer da series' superfans..or superfins in this case In regards to that Texas sized 10-4, also check out Letterkenny on Hulu. Pretty dry humor, if you're into that, and a bit crass at times, but hilarious. Edit: I originally commented it was on Prime, someone mentioned that it's actually on Hulu. Oops! Texas sized 10-4 = #6 Please don't die! Came here just for this... >15.9% interest. Do you even military bro? Only 15.9%?!?! What a steal!!! Okay but PLEASE update us if you guys ever end up dating or something. This way too awesome. Watch for his buddy, the quiet observer-hope I didn't violate the code... Surely she's changed by n- oh. Unreliable narrator: "And this is how I saved your father from certain death! " Better than the last one that took 9 seasons to tell. I’ll just crash the wedding I’m so giddy with anticipation of a cute update. My optimism is drowning the pessimist side of me in the lake, hoping a hot scuba diver saves it. Glad we can all laugh together.  Bummer, dude. Of all the people I should buy a beer, it's them. But maybe they will. Depending on if they are on leave or their orders, they might have free time. Shit, I know one group that was training up in the mountains. Ass-deep in snow, full packs, 12k feet up and they decided "let's go get drunk" so they had their instructor go out with them. Hiked down the mountain, got changed and went out for beers. That would be amazing. or at least in DM. Can't even swim and now even I've got to see it. Watch this space. Tesla style cheap af mini submarine coming up So when’s the wedding? Ohhh love this quote... Engraving this on wood and putting in my home Hey, most people would have just stood around and yelled for help. You actually tried to help. There’s no shame in your mistake. At least he knows if he’d had been done for that day maybe you could’ve saved him. 🤷🏻‍♀️ If anything, he owes you the beer. And that's what I appreciates about you.  Crass? Crass you say? That sounds like the muttering of a crasshole right there. This disparaging comment makes me wonder if your brain procrass-tinated thinking of something useful to say. There is nothing crass about cataloging your farts, and your friend's farts, and your friend's friend's farts. Gonna need you to taker 'er down about 23% there, Superchief I won’t if you update us. The ball is in your court, no pressure! Well... she is technically homeless and has a part time job as a bartender, so her credit score will definitely help bring the interest rate down. 27.5% minimum... WITH a balloon payment. And the seed for a fun romcom. That is EXACTLY how I plan to re-tell this. Only you people get the truth. I'll wear a blue-balled neon dragonfly dress. Trying to rescue someone! at the store those panties came from: "Hey boss, I finally sold the penis panties" "The ones with the huge balls? How?" "I told her they were dragonflies!" from a former military dude, echo all the above. My advice to you? Hang out at the bar for a couple nights. He might not be able to make it tonight or this weekend but he'll definitely try within a couple weeks. This is literally all he knows about where to find you I hope for the best! I'd guess they would be down for buying you a round. After all, you gave them an unexpected show during a likely boring training session. And a hilarious story to tell all their buddies who missed it! Rest assured, beer or not, they probably appreciated your act of equally badass heroism. You fucking jumped half naked into a lake to save someone you didn't know without hesitation. You are a badass too, and I'm sure at least one cute dimpled man in that group was thinking "I should marry that girl"! You'll find your partner in badassary soon enough. Like sometime else said, if they don't show tonight I'd hang out there with since friends the next few Fridays if you can. As a former military dude, not only would I 100% be showing unless duty prevented it, even if I was taken (because then I'd be bringing single friends), but if duty did prevent it I'd definitely be there the first Friday I could in hopes that it is your regular hangout spot. And then in you. Heck yeah! For some reason that straight up reminded me of that cartoon on adult swim, can't recall the name, Sealab or something? Lol I would totally watch this movie! Live Laugh Pull I read this as "engraving this on my wood" and was not amused. If he came to Reddit and sees this there's only two options: he high-tails it outta here or he marries her. He could be married, lol If anything its a funny memory to look back on and show that they're a person of action. Also shows they have a good sense of humor in being able to tell the story despite how embarrassing it may be. Oh, is THAT what you appreciate? I'll update, but no guarantee he'll show. Deal? Jesus christ, this is the comment that got me. Thanks for the laugh Just long as OP does not list "Marine wife" on their resume under occupation. Done. You're a bridesmaid now Probably the groom. Only to realize he is there to actually get married and is not in need of saving. And she was crazy stupid and believed me. Man, you made me laugh at this one. Truth, and as another former military guy. There's always a way. I cant count the number of times me and my roommate slipped out of the barracks on the weekend to go clubbing Or the lake Military types live for stories. The best ones earn the narrator a beer or two. Hey, they don’t have to get married and could even be life long friends. Sometimes it’s good to have someone who would have your back in a instant. Lol, awesome!! Unless...? Very, very good point. Worth it just for the contact. You can see my mind wanders in the direction of the abyss sometimes I wanna be a bridesmaid! Barney Stinson supports this message. Remember when the GOP senate said let the courts decide. Pepperidge Farm remembers. Edit: Since many keep asking me. https://www.nbcnews.com/think/amp/ncna1258065 Donald Trump becomes the first actor from Home Alone 2 to be convicted of 34 felonies Shitting on the judge that's going to sentence you is an interesting strategy. Let's see how it plays out. Wow he’s never scored 34 out of 34 on anything before. A+ **Sentencing is set for July 11th.** **The Republican National Convention is July 15th.** Has someone checked what flag is flying at the Alito residence? I still can't believe I've been forced to care about this embarrassing fucking idiot for almost an entire decade of my life. Congratulations, Donald Trump. You have the most convictions of any other president in U.S. history! Yay! Remember when he said Hillary should drop out because she was under investagation After the 60+ election interference cases Trump brought to trial, this is the first case he is involved in that found a person guilty of election interference. 34? In a row? Try not to commit anymore felonies in the parking lot! I prefer presidents who aren’t convicted felons. Already seeing the posts screaming, "If they can do this to a former president, they can do this to anybody." Yes? That's how laws are supposed to work? Didn't testify at Impeachment #1. Didn't testify at Impeachment #2. Didn't testify at E. Jean Caroll trial. Didn't testify at this Hush Money Election Interference trial. Won't refute anything under oath because he's a damn **coward**. And now, a **convicted** coward. Let's take a moment to thank national hero Stormy Daniels. His Wikipedia page is already updated "Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American politician, media personality, businessman, and convicted felon who served as the 45th president of the United States from 2017 to 2021" All the MAGAs in r/conservative acting like they were on the fence and *this* was the moment that convinced them to vote for Trump are hilarious. MAGA: *If they can do this to him, that means they can do this to any of us!* 🤯😭 Why yes, that's how laws work. Thinking of the Judge and the jurors. Thank you for your courage. Be safe. People that got convicted of 34 felonies should not be able to make lifetime judicial appointments. Crazy how Joe Biden successfully made Trump cheat on his wife, pay off a porn star, and commit fraud by covering it up. Biden must be playing quantum 8D chess Someone finally got the popular vote For those confused what the crime here was, I wrote this: It's important to note here, that paying hush money is not illegal. Paying hush money to bury a story is not illegal. Paying hush money for the purposes of a political campaign is not illegal. Paying hush money for the purposes of a political campaign and failing to report it to the Federal Election Commission, when the political campaign is for President of the United States *is* illegal. Falsifying business records to hide the purpose of that money and evade the mandatory reporting to the FEC is a crime in the state of New York. The issue is more subtle. It's not that he paid hush money, it's that he doctored, and instructed others to doctor, business records in New York State to hide the (totally legal) use of funds in order to conceal the actual purpose of paying those funds, in order to evade the requirement that he report those funds to the FEC. It would have been totally legal for Trump to have paid Daniels for her story, and paid her not to talk about it in the press. And if he did those purely for personal reasons (like to save his family the embarrassment) he wouldn't have really needed to disclose them to anyone. But if he paid those funds to increase his odds of winning the Presidential election he was legally mandated to report those funds to the FEC. The jury found, based on the evidence presented, that those funds were paid to increase his chances to win the presidental election, not for any personal reasons. They likewise found he failed to report the payment of those funds to the FEC, which is a crime, but it's a federal crime and not one the State of New York has jurisdiction over. The jury further found that he doctored business records in order to conceal the fact that he committed a crime by failing to report the spending of campaign-related funds to the FEC. Doctoring business records to conceal a crime is, in and of itself, a crime in the State of New York. That's what he's convicted for. Essentially the jury found: * 1) Trump paid, and directed others to pay certain funds used to induce people to to either purchase rights to stories in order to bury them, or to not disclose what they saw or knew (this is legal) * 2) The purpose of those funds was to prevent unfavorable news stories from reaching the public eye (also legal) * 3) The purpose of attempting to prevent those unfavorable news stories from reaching the public eye was to influence the 2016 Presidential Election (ALSO legal) * 4) Trump failed to disclose the spending of those funds, spent with the intent of influencing the 2016 Presidential Election to the Federal Election Commission (illegal, but that's a federal crime, and one the state of New York has no jurisdiction to prosecute over) * 5) Trump doctored, or directed others to doctor, business records of his New York based business to hide the true purpose of those funds (this is a misdemeanor in the state of new york) * 6) The purpose behind doctoring those records was to conceal the fact that Trump committed a crime by failing to report the payment of those funds to the FEC (the failure to do so is a federal crime) * 7) Doctoring business records in NY for the purposes of concealing a crime (any crime, state or federal) elevates the misdemeanor to a felony * 8) Trump did this 34 times. Let's check the scoreboard Trump Charity - fraud, shut down, fined and barred from charitable boards Trump University - fraud, shut down, fined Trump Casino, Airline, Steaks, Vodka, etc, - failed, shuttered Trump Inc - fraud, removed from control, fined Trump campaign - failed coup, hundreds of supporters found guilty Trump the Businessman - found guilty of financial crimes and fraud, barred from doing business in NY and fined hundreds of millions of dollars Trump the Husband - three wives, three high profile cases of adultery, two divorces Trump the Man - bragged about assaulting a woman at a department store, found civilly liable for sexual assault at a department store Trump the Candidate - convicted felon for hush money payments R\conservative - he's got our vote Per requests - Trump the Father - bragged about the sexual attractiveness of his daughter and said that if his daughter wasn't his daughter, he'd be dating her Trump the President - fired pandemic response team, failed to respond to pandemic appropriately, millions dead Remember the best part, y'all: This is generally considered to be the *weakest* and lowest stake case currently being brought against him.  You talking about twice impeached, convicted felon, Donald J Trump? Known felon and rapist Donald J. Trump. Unreal. Our country now has a felon running for President of the United States. I thought it would probably happen but still hard to fathom the gravity of this. Glad he will finally see some consequences (in theory). the most important thing about this trial was that it happened at all. commenced, proceeded, concluded, just like thousands of other trials. kudos to the DA and prosecutors, the judge, the jury, court officers, and NYPD just a heads up that you can sing Twice Impeached Convicted Felon to the tune of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, as you were Been a prosecutor, been a defense attorney. Best thing Trump can do right now is shut up and show contrition. He is a nearly 80 year old man, likely suffering from dementia, with no record (before today 😁) who can likely avoid jail time if he just acts remotely normal. Of course, this is a man who would’ve coasted to re-election if he just acted like a normal president during COVID. But I digress, instead he is going to use this press conference tomorrow to attack the prosecutors, the judge, the judge’s daughter, the jury, the witnesses, the Biden administration, Trump’s defense team, Mike Pence, the Taco Bell dog and really anyone else who pops into his demented old head. And I don’t see how any judge doesn’t give him jail time after that. Acceptance of responsibility is a huge deal when it comes to sentencing. And Trump, claiming to be a Christian, literally said he cannot thing of a single time he’s ever had to ask God for forgiveness or repent. He’s not going to accept responsibility. He’s not going to be contrite. He’s going to give Merchan no choice but to sentence him to jail. And I am here for it. Thanks to Trump, the average number of convictions per president is now 0.76. Edit: thank y'all for the upvotes & awards. Who woulda guessed math would be so popular? r/conservative is in a total meltdown saying this is good for Trump. Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty It’s official. The gop is a criminal organization, headed by a convicted felon. You gonna vote for a convicted felon who tried to overthrow democracy in modern America? Fuck that. Trump, a lying, unqualified, draft dodging, gold star family disrespecting, POW attacking, US General insulting, racist, sexist, vulgar, confirmed sexual assaulting, trillion dollars to the rich tax cutting, own daughter creeping, wife cheating with a pornstar after birth of son and paying her off to influence a presidential election, $413 million dollar inheritance getting, teen pageant dressing room invading, baby and mother separating, breast feeding mother shaming, fat-shaming while being fat, 17 women accusing him of sexual assaulting, accusers are not attractive enough for him to assault implying, university student defrauding, bankrupt casino causing, kids cancer charity stealing, taped detailed accusation of rape of a minor having, wife-beating, popular vote losing, anti-vaxxing, Christianity-faking, publicist impersonating, tax dodging, friends’ wives pursuing, impeached, foreign aid bribing, 1/3 of the presidency golf playing, free press assaulting, Hannity coordinating, Cambridge Analytica using, Ivanka is a “piece of ass” approving, loan application asset inflating, historically low polling, college achievement faking, unqualified judge appointing, unqualified cabinet member appointing, foreign influence on our election welcoming, tax release avoiding, birther conspiracy spreading, Ukraine ambassador targeting, Russian money taking, Kurdish ally abandoning, soldier brain injury downplaying, full morning “executive time” taking, Epstein befriending, Putin bowing, Kim Jong Un praising, North Korean general saluting, US intelligence denying, tallest building in lower Manhattan after 9/11 boasting, congress obstructing, nuclear non-proliferation deal ending, Justice obstructing, unqualified daughter and son-in-law appointing, healthcare cut targeting, pedophile candidate supporting, trump tower Moscow denying, mail-bomber inspiring, 4 out of top 5 largest protests in US history causing, green energy stifling, clean water regulation destroying, healthy school lunch ending, climate change denying, congressional and judicial branch attacking, economy does better under democrats saying, Goldman Sachs appointing, food stamp removing, emissions standards lowering, press conference avoiding, emoluments clause breaking, longest govt shutdown record holding, Saudi Arabia nuclear tech selling, golf cheating, time magazine cover faking, El Paso mass shooter inspiring, paying legal bills for roughing up protestors promising, killed soldier “knew what he signed up for” saying, pardon abusing scumbag... Is also a convicted felon. Damn, ever since freakin 2016 my fiance and I always promised each other we'd drop what we're doing the second either of us heard of such blessed news. Unfortunately he passed away this month. Hope you caught it live up there, honey. We survived so damn much I just wish we could drink to this together. I guess this pointless comment will somehow bond our promise into internet history. But for real, fuck that guy. edit: wow, totally didn't think my comment would be noticed at all in such a large mega post. Thanks to all. Really wasn't expecting to even comment about it, just the first thing I thought of when I heard he got convicted on all counts. I'm about to call an old Marine friend of his right now so we can chat about the news in his honor. Truly appreciate all the replies, thank you everyone. Cheers! Remember Only 13 Presidents failed to get re-elected. Only 5 Presidents failed to win the popular vote. Only 4 Presidents have been impeached or resigned. Only 1 President has ever been criminally indicted. And only ONE President has done ALL FOUR. Everyone over in r/conservative is like "guaranteed election win for trump after this". These cult fanatics are truly lost. Say it with me - 34 times convicted felon, twice-impeached, former President Donald J Trump Fox News: “there are people celebrating in the streets all over the country” YES  r/Conservative is talking about sending $34 donations. Cultists be cultin'. Get fucked traitor We won't get the sentence until July 11th. 4 days before the Republican national convention begins. Lol. Lmfao. Great win, but let’s not forget that the only way to get rid of this guy once and for all is by VOTING massively in November. Two impeachments. Liable for sexual assault and defamation. Lying about value of business assets. And now 34 counts of falsifying business records to cover up extramarital sex with a porn star. And we haven't even gotten to the fake elector schemes, insurrection, and stolen classified docs. No matter what happens with sentencing, Donald Trump is now officially a convicted felon. Don't let people trick you into dooming and thinking that doesn't matter with at least some voters (and we've seen many times how few voters it can take to flip an election!). This election is more winnable than ever. Go over to /r/VoteDEM if you want to find out ways to help. Edit: And even if this has you super confident in the presidential election, the Senate is going to be a hard fight (Montana and Ohio will likely decide who controls the Senate), so let's work to make sure Biden will be able to confirm Supreme Court judges if there are any vacancies! >Tucker Carlson responded to today’s verdic... saying that “anyone who defends this verdict is a danger to you and your family.” Hey, thanks for further dividing families and friends This will literally have people kicking others out of their lives for being "enemies of the state" As Trump steps outside of the courthouse, reporters were yelling out: ***"Mr. Trump, how does it feel to be a convicted felon!?"*** ***"Are you worried about going to jail?"*** Perfection. No notes. 👨🏽‍🍳👌 *** Edit: (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6V5B8MFpu74&t=586s), just before he begins bashing the judicial system. Reporters' comments are at 586 seconds (9:46) into the stream. Savour the moment. And the folks over on /r conservative are saying republicans would never do this to a former president. They will take the high road… 😂🤡 For all the maga folks about to come in here and scream "WITCH HUNT!" I have a question for you: let's say, a Democrat president is investigated and found to have committed a bunch of felonies. Should that President face accountability? And if so, by what method(s) do you propose that, we the people, should determine that the president committed said crimes and hold them accountable if not by the current method of a grand jury indictment and a jury conviction? And, In this scenario, how would you respond to Democrats claiming that this is just a political witch hunt? Thank. Fucking. ***GOD.*** Yeah, he probably won't serve jail time. Yes, it's the most minor of the charges on file. **I don't care**. For the longest time, Donny has been able to do whatever to our country with zero consequences whatsoever. It's so good to see that someone, *finally*, is forcing the bastard to face the music. What happens now? I don't know. But I know that something like this has been long, *long* overdue. Donald Trump is a winner, got the full 34 counts guilty. So much winning Don, you were right, I can't get enough of this shit. My “Thin Blue Line” loving friends love to say, “If you don’t want to get in trouble with the law, stop committing crimes.” So much for that guaranteed hung jury eh? Get fucked, 45. Just here for HISTORY!!!! FUCK TRUMP. "Congrats to Donald J. Trump for finally winning a popular vote." Lmfao CNN are so savouring this with huge “CONVICTED” banners, and I’m here for it. My favorite is Fox News saying this was all orchestrated by Joe Biden. So is he a senile old fuck who doesn’t know what day it is or is he a diabolical mastermind who cracked the code after decades of failed attempts to take down Trump? Random conservative clown on a related r/Conservative post. I'd have commented directly but they banned the latest of my alt accounts last week when I pointed out Trump tried to stage a coup: >The sad part is now that this can has been opened, it will become a never ending back and forth. We are going to serve Biden up the day he gets out of office…and the next guy, and the next guy. Their shortsightedness is going to cause political devastation Bro LMAO if they can get a jury of 12 random people to find Biden guilty of something the moment he gets out of office THEN I, AND PROBABLY A SHIT TON OF PEOPLE WHO VOTE FOR DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES, ARE TOTALLY FOR IT. Fucking dictator-boot-licking clowns lmao. This is what it looks like... kind of... when people in power are held to account. Why would anyone, on either side of the aisle, be against holding them to account?  I can’t believe what I’m witnessing Donald Trump is the first president in US history to be convicted of a felony. Holy Fuck. He won 100% of the vote lol r/conservative is having an absolute meltdown lmao.  All those beautiful, beautiful felony counts. The most felony counts. The “if they can do this to a former president they can do this to anyone” comment in r/conservative is funny because yeah… if someone commits a crime with a substantial amount of evidence against them then they get a guilty verdict lmao. People need to be held accountable.  Trump is number 1!!! First to lose the popular vote, twice!! First to be impeached, twice!! First president to lose the house and senate in his first term….and FIRST to be convicted of a felony. Wikipedia entry for Donald Trump: **Donald John Trump** (born June 14, 1946) is an American politician, media personality, businessman, and convicted felon who served as the 45th (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_United_States) from 2017 to 2021. That ain't ever coming down Trump finally won the popular vote!😂 The conservative copium is hilarious right now. Twice impeached, Convicted Felon Donald Trump. Trump finally won a popular vote and it was unanimous. First time Trump won a popular vote Holy shit lmao Look at that, he finally won a popular vote! Love the clowns at /r/Conservative acting like this sets a dangerous precedent. Just don't sign false checks, and definitely don't write notes on the back explaining why it's false? Trump finally won the popular vote. I like presidential candidates that weren’t convicted. 🤷 He should be happy. He finally won 100% of a popular vote. average president is convicted of 0.74 felonies   We can officially refer to a former President and current presumptive nominee of a major political party as a rapist and a convicted felon and neither would be defamatory or extreme hyperbole. What a fucking weird time to be alive Lock him up. And Melania didn't make a single appearance in court to support him. Some conservatives and republicans are saying "He got treated unfairly". If me or you broke the gag order that many times or was in contempt that many times our asses would be in jail. Trump gave them every reason to and they didn't. Magas have KNOWN that trump is a criminal. Magas LIKE that trump is a criminal. That's WHY they VOTED for him in 2016 and 2020. They won't admit it, but they all know it. It's insane. Dear America Ok lads you got the turd in the bowl, now in the words of Frank Reynolds...FLUSH FLUSH FLUSH FLUSH! Slan Ireland  Looool his Wikipedia page has already been updated. Fun fact that no one is discussing. Trump is currently the subject of three other criminal prosecutions and is now convicted of 34 felonies. Any other person would have their bail revoked in the other cases. I just want people to remember that it was a jury chosen by both the Prosecution and Defense, and any single juror could have voted no to any or all of the charges. Calling the verdict rigged not only invalidates our court system, but also the voices of 12 American citizens. Shout out to Stormy Daniels, for real. Wow. I just learnt this news because an Australian political party shared, “Home Alone 2 star found guilty on 34 felony accounts.” No one is above the law. As an Australian, please stick the landing, guys. Trump's rhetoric is wrecking the frigging world. Funny to watch him cry about rigged judges and cases as Judge Eileen Cannon, one of the most corrupt judges in US history, covers his ass in Florida on another extremely serious case that should have him behind bars. More projection. Fucking finally, a convicted felon. And it can't be pardoned. His outburst of rage, AFTER he is convicted on **34** out of **34** felony charges, was embarrasing. Americans, please do not vote this lunatic back into office. > Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American politician, media personality, businessman, and __convicted felon__ who served as the 45th president of the United States from 2017 to 2021. Oh it's such a beautiful sight. Congrats, America :) You've proven that everyone, regardless of their power, is accountable under the rule of law. Now the only question is whether enough of your electorate will care that the Republican candidate is a convicted criminal. The entire sane world is hoping they do. It only takes a few thousand in the right places who are swayed... I like presidents that aren't convicted felons. Former disgraced President, Donald J. Trump, has been found guilty on all 34 counts of falsifying business records to interfere with the 2016 election. Donald J. Trump is a convicted felon.^](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/trump-is-convicted-felon-now-what-2024-05-30/) _____ 1) (https://www.reuters.com/world/us/trump-is-convicted-felon-now-what-2024-05-30/) Whether or not you support him, it should be important that no one is above the law Republicans should be celebrating this as the party of Law and Order. Every time Biden refers to Trump he should be sure to latch convicted felon to his name. Every time. The first time Trump won the popular vote He can't even vote for himself now lmao Damn our generation has lived through some historic times. They're going to learn about this a hundred years from now in history class and wonder how we were dumb enough to elect this clown. We don’t know how many votes this will lose for him but we know it will be at least one. His own. Hilarious the GOP will officially nominate him 4 days after sentencing. What a dogshit party At least he won the popular vote this time. Homie got 34/34. Got convicted bigly haha  I LIKE MY PRESIDENTS WHO DONT RECEIVE 34 GUILTY COUNTS 34 of 34! Perfect score! The New Yorker just published its latest cover and cover story. The cover is an illustration of Trump (with tiny hands) being handcuffed. The headline: > A MAN OF CONVICTION Fucking priceless. I like Presidents who weren’t convicted. I like my Presidents not to be convicted felons. The irony gods are smiling at the fact that the man whose whole campaign was based around locking up his opponent is now the first President who is a convicted felon. /r/Conservative is legitimately delusional thinking that this will not only not hurt him, but that it will actually help him in November. Absolutely hilarious. I understand thinking that he won't lose voters because of this - I strongly disagree, but I understand the perspective at least given that his followers are very cult-like. But to think he will somehow gain voters as a result of being convicted of dozens of election interference felonies in the lead up to another election - well that's nothing more than a simple coping mechanism for victims of the sunk cost fallacy of Trumpism. Good luck with that and Don the con. Today is historic. I think this is finally the beginning of the end for this shit stain. > Biden gives Ukraine permission to strike inside Russia >Trump found guilty >This all happened in 1 hour. We. Are. So. Back. So, are you trying to tell me that the presumptive nominee for the “party of law and order“ is a convicted felon???? I am in shock. I just, I cant believe it. I knew this man was wrong for so long, yet he got away with so fucking much. My respect and love for America has been so low, I've been trained to expect so little.... I am like having a chemical reaction inside my body. I just, I can't believe it. Fucking yes America, fucking stand up for yourself. Imagine being so unfathomably, unimaginably fucking stupid that you would vote for this person to be your party's nominee for President of the United States. I just saw Hannity fall to his knees in a Starbucks. trump posted: trump says “Not only did this HIGHLY CONFLICTED, BIASED Judge, Juan Merchan, prevent me from presenting the fact that I did not take a Tax Deduction on the Legal Expense (which was marked, correctly, as a Legal Expense), the Judge also did not allow my lawyers to get Tax Records from the former attorney, whose name I am not allowed to mention due to the UnConstitutional Gag Order imposed upon me. ELECTION INTERFERENCE! WITCH HUNT!” here’s the facts: Donald Trump's statement contains several inaccuracies and misleading claims. Here is a fact-check based on the provided sources: ### Claim 1: "Judge Juan Merchan prevented me from presenting the fact that I did not take a Tax Deduction on the Legal Expense." - **Fact**: Judge Merchan did not prevent Trump from presenting evidence related to tax deductions. The judge's instructions to the jury included explanations about what constitutes falsifying business records and the intent to defraud, which involves the intent to commit or conceal another crime, such as tax fraud. There is no indication that Trump was barred from presenting specific evidence about tax deductions. ### Claim 2: "The Legal Expense (which was marked, correctly, as a Legal Expense)." - **Fact**: The prosecution argued that the payments to Michael Cohen were falsely labeled as legal expenses to conceal their true nature as reimbursements for hush money payments to Stormy Daniels. The jury found Trump guilty of falsifying business records, indicating they did not accept the defense's argument that the expenses were correctly marked. ### Claim 3: "The Judge also did not allow my lawyers to get Tax Records from the former attorney." - **Fact**: There is no evidence that Judge Merchan prevented Trump's lawyers from obtaining tax records from Michael Cohen. The judge did limit the testimony of certain witnesses, such as former Federal Election Commission chairman Bradley Smith, but this was related to the scope of their testimony, not the ability to obtain records. ### Claim 4: "I am not allowed to mention due to the UnConstitutional Gag Order imposed upon me." - **Fact**: The gag order imposed by Judge Merchan restricts Trump from making public statements about potential witnesses, jurors, court employees, or their families to ensure a fair trial and protect the safety of those involved. This order has been upheld by the appellate court, which found it to be a necessary measure to balance Trump's free speech rights with the need for a fair trial. ### Claim 5: "ELECTION INTERFERENCE! WITCH HUNT!" - **Fact**: Trump has repeatedly claimed that the charges against him are politically motivated and constitute election interference. However, the prosecution and the court have maintained that the charges are based on evidence and legal principles, not political bias. The jury's unanimous guilty verdict further supports the legitimacy of the legal process. In summary, Trump's claims about Judge Merchan's actions and the nature of the trial are not supported by the facts. The judge's rulings and the gag order were implemented to ensure a fair trial and protect the integrity of the judicial process. Sources  Judge refuses to gag Trump in classified docs case, says special ... https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-attorneys-allege-unconstitutional-censorship-special-counsel-gag-order-request  Court Rejects Trump's Gag Order Appeal - Forbes https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianbushard/2024/05/14/trumps-gag-order-upheld-in-hush-money-case-after-appeal-is-rejected/  Donald Trump's Newest Gag Order Has Key Difference Than Previous https://www.newsweek.com/donald-trump-new-gag-order-key-difference-1883837  Fact check: Trump delivers flurry of false and misleading claims as ... https://www.cnn.com/2024/05/30/politics/fact-check-trump-false-claims-trial/index.html  The Latest | Judge excuses jurors, ending first day of deliberations in ... https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory/latest-trumps-criminal-trial-enter-deliberations-phase-after-110634720  Who is Juan Merchan, the judge in Trump's criminal hush-money trial? https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/article/2024/may/29/juan-merchan-donald-trump  Analysis-For Trump's False Records Charges, Prison Is Rare but Not ... https://www.usnews.com/news/world/articles/2024-05-30/analysis-for-trumps-false-records-charges-prison-is-rare-but-not-unprecedented  READ: Jury instructions from judge in the Trump hush money trial https://www.wbaltv.com/article/read-jury-instructions-trump-trial/60939715  Trump trial highlights: Hush money judge holds hearing ... - NBC News https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/live-blog/trump-trial-hush-money-case-live-updates-rcna149907  A verdict has been reached in Trump's New York trial - NPR https://www.npr.org/2024/05/30/nx-s1-4977352/trump-trial-verdict  What is the New York election law at the center of Trump's hush ... https://consent.yahoo.com/v2/collectConsent?sessionId=1_cc-session_fd0546fb-ff42-4d61-803d-6e58c8028c55  SENATOR VANCE: NEW YORK TRUMP TRIAL IS JUST ANOTHER ... https://www.vance.senate.gov/press-releases/senator-vance-new-york-trump-trial-is-just-another-partisan-witch-hunt/  Democrats' Corrupt And Desperate Witch Hunts Against President ... https://stefanik.house.gov/2024/4/icymi-chairwoman-stefanik-democrats-corrupt-and-desperate-witch-hunts-against-president-trump-must-come-to-an-end  Judge finds Donald Trump in contempt for 10th time over gag order ... https://www.cnn.com/2024/05/06/politics/merchan-trump-gag-order-contempt/index.html  A verdict has been reached in Trump's New York trial and will be ... https://www.wusf.org/2024-05-30/former-president-trump-is-found-guilty-in-historic-new-york-criminal-case  False right-wing reports about Trump trial jury instructions fuel ... https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/false-right-wing-reports-trump-trial-jury-instructions-fuel-threats-ju-rcna154678  Trump trial live updates: Verdict reached in historic case - ABC News https://abcnews.go.com/US/live-updates/trump-hush-money-trial/trump-team-hoping-for-a-hung-jury-say-sources-110671909?id=110586765  Trump's hush money case has gone to the jury. What happens now? https://apnews.com/article/trump-trial-hush-money-trial-jury-deliberations-38642e8b525477b49c6cc1320f10f25b  Trump hush money trial evidence is 'overwhelming': prosecutor's ... https://www.cnbc.com/2024/05/28/trump-trial-closing-arguments-begin-in-new-york-hush-money-case.html Celebrate tonight, but remember that the real work of preserving democracy begins now. r/conservatives are melting like snowflakes. “Kangaroo court” and “rigged just like the election” chants abound. Let’s send them thoughts and prayers. Donald Trump makes Richard Nixon look like an altar boy. Well… he’s finally won a popular vote Thread is moving so fast no one will see that I love biodiverse natural ecosystems Twice impeached, convicted felon, convicted rapist, former President who has never won the popular vote, Donald Trump. So this is your guy republicans? A rapist, racist, 34 times convicted felon? What a winner you have there. YES. The orange turd is officially a felon. Saying "Convicted Felon Donald Trump" will never get old. "Trump faces a maximum possible sentence of four years in prison for each count." DO IT!!! Laughing at everyone who spent the last two years saying an indictment would never happen and then that a conviction would never happen and it would certainly be a hung jury and now are pivoting to saying that being convicted for 34 felonies will do nothing to change a single independent’s mind because the polls said so. Happy conviction day, everybody!  I’m sure there will be an upside down flag flying over the Alito household tonight. Fucking finally found guilty. Im so tired of him getting away with shit. Where were yall when you found out that Donald Trump is a Convicted Felon?? I'll start. Shitting on the toilet🥳 Lock him up ! LOCK HIM UP! Holding your leaders accountable is how we really make America great again! Fk Trump. Fk fascism. Fk all the people who encourage and enable such anti-American BS. It’s genuinely insane how many people you see still kissing his boots. “What crime did he commit?” Bro paid a pornstar with company funds and listed it as a legal expense. He raped a woman and his main defense is “She’s too ugly for me”. I genuinely don’t see how the group that considers themselves “Christian nationalists” can root for a man that is an affront to the entire religion Most impeachments of any sitting president, most convictions of a former president. Keep racking up those wins, you narcissistic fuck. He's 3 for 3 with popular votes among juries now.... So much winning Lock. Him. Up. Although it's unlikely to happen, I'd like everyone to join me in a rousing chorus of "LOCK HIM UP! LOCK HIM UP!" From MSNBC >Rep. Jim Jordan who chairs the House Judiciary panel, railed against the verdict shortly after it was delivered in a (https://x.com/Jim_Jordan/status/1796287911869977011). >"The verdict is a travesty of justice," the Ohio Republican wrote. "The Manhattan kangaroo court shows what happens when our justice system is weaponized by partisan prosecutors in front of a biased judge with an unfair process, designed to keep President Trump off the campaign trail and avoid bringing attention to President Biden’s failing radical policies." >Trump will be "vindicated on appeal," Jordan added. I'm speechless at both the irony of the Chairman of the House *Judiciary* Committee calling a unanimous verdict by a jury, the core bedrock of the criminal justice system, a "travesty of justice" and his complete lack of self-awareness for being so shamelessly partisan and vindictive himself while claiming that's what the Manhattan DA's Office did here. Convicted Felon, Fraud and Rapist, former President Donald Trump All court approved statements Thanks to the prosecutors, the judge and the jury for serving with dignity and courage. The 🍊guy (and his lackeys) did everything possible to intimidate the jury, the judge (and his daughter!), and the prosecutor to no avail! It’s a good day for our justice system and big “D” democracy. Ensuring he never sets foot in the WH again is the next hurdle. Let’s make sure he loses by numbers *too big to dispute.*  Twice impeached convicted rapist and now convicted felon. Maggot Bro can’t even vote for himself From the NBC live feed, they interviewed an 83 year old Trump supporter. This is what she said: >"I don’t see him as that much of a criminal. What he did was, it might have been a crime, but I don’t think it was that much of a crime," Bennett, 83, said lmfao. Trump cultist in a nutshell Biden campaign on Trump verdict: 'No one is above the law' (https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2024-election/biden-campaign-reacts-trump-verdict-rcna154792) I hope Biden refers to him as “My convicted felon opponent” as often as possible during the debates Trump gets convicted of 34 felonies Trump’s response to verdict: “There are bad people illegally coming here” BRO WHAT Is Trump allowed to vote in Florida if he's convicted of a felony? Doesn't Florida bar felons from voting until they serve out their sentence? Fuck him, his entire family, every bootlicker enabling him, and fuck every last magat that will just change the goalposts yet again. From now on he should always be referred to as "Insurrectionist, rapist, and 34-time felon Donald Trump." Does this mean that Joe can call trumpy a convicted felon at the debates? Stormi Daniels fucks him one last time. Make Convicted Felons face Consequences Again Just when you begin to lose all faith in citizenry of the United States something comes along and restores a little of it. A felon is running for President. There are no ‘both sides are equal’ here. You can’t vote for president as a felon but you can *be* president. Make that make sense Hey remember that time Republicans nominated a convicted felon? Convicted felon and rapist! Quality presidential candidate you have there. Don't commit any felonies on the way through the parking lot! /r/Conservative in shambles. conservative sub locked down and only let flair users comment and post. republican sub is going in that direction. anyways, both are terrifying that they still believe this man did no wrong. offend shrill combative squeamish slap employ consider hungry homeless wasteful *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with (https://redact.dev/home)* Trump finally won a popular vote. Thank you to the brave 12 people who remained steadfast in delivering a guilty verdict. I hope people voting in November take Trump's conviction into account. If Trump wins in November, we lose any hope of stemming climate change, and the loss of countless species to go with it. Jesus Christ, he's calling himself a political prisoner now. Are all you neo fascist conservatives tired of "winning" yet? Let the tears flow 🤣 "Felony conviction first thing Trump has earned his entire life" Evidence that he CAN get a perfect score in something. In sober living I saw a guy trying to get his life back together and this job at a plastic factory he was trying to get fell through because he had a single felony drug charge. He had a psychotic break and ended up under a bridge using again. 1 felony. Wherever you are Stan, I hope some part of the system works for you some day. If the GOP was smart they would dump Trump and move on. Alas, they will instead become the first party to nominate a convicted felon to the Presidency. I’m not sure how we recover from where we’re at if sanity doesn’t eventually prevail. Hey MAGA this is what draining the swamp looks like. Go DA Bragg! Wow. Party of law in order absolutely losing it over their felon sex abuser in chief being found guilty after kinda bragging about paying off a porn star to blow him but not his campaign. Does this mean he can’t even vote for himself? I truly, truly didn’t think they would convict. This is crazy. So what’s next? Does he hop on a plane and gtfo of town or does his fat, useless body just give out? 34-0, that’s all. Right now he's in his coffin. We have to bury him. The only way to do that is voting in November. The moment Biden wins is the moment the lunatic will head for Russia to seek asylum I haven't been this moist since the last time I fell off a boat. None of the trumpers can answer the simple question, Is there anything trump could do that would make you stop supporting and stop voting for him. Get fucked, Donny! 🖕🤣🖕 As per Maggie Haberman, Trump was "in a good mood" before the verdict. ROFL Are we still having that presidential debate next month. Please make Trump wear an ankle monitor Unrelated question. If a mob boss orders someone to commit a crime for the mob boss’s benefit, and the subordinate is caught in said crime, pleads guilty, and serves jail time… When the mob boss is caught at a later date in the same crime, does not plead guilty, and is hostile and shitty throughout their trial in which they are eventually found guilty on 34 felony counts… Would you expect the mob boss to serve less, more, or equal time to the subordinate? This is the GOP's guy. Yep. Human scum of a party. Can you all imagine what the National Museum of American History wing of the Smithsonian Trump exhibit is going to be like in 20 years? I mean what evidence are they going to want to preserve? - Boxes used to hide national secrets - The jury card with 34 guilty convictions? - Pictures of Stormy? - Cohens tape machines? I mean this Trump exhibit will be sold out for months. It will be multi-media and probably VR in places. This is the most hype I've felt since Obama announced that we got Osama Bin Laden. U S A Y’all wanna hear a joke? A CIVILLY LIABLE rapist and CONVICTED felon walk into a bar The bar tender says “Hey Donald Trump, change your fucking diaper before coming in here you smelly piece of shit” Goalpost moving and screeching about Appeal and how unfair everything is in 3... 2.... 1.... Let this be a reminder to all past, present and future Presidents. This is America. It's supposed to mean something and we are really trying to have it mean something. Proud of my state. Get fucked Donny -Convicted felon, Donald Trump. -Donald Trump (convicted felon). -Convict Trump -34 time convicted felon Donald Trump. I can’t decide which one I like best. Jury message was timestamped 4:20. Nice. Trump finally wins a popular vote.  I genuinely don’t get why republicans are so devoted to one man. In the past we would just move onto another candidate who we believe can win. Now it’s Trump or nothing. No matter what he does there’s always justification for it and he’s the man to run. His own daughter is the co-chair of the RNC. He’s ingrained himself into the fabric of the Republican Party and turned it into the Trump party. If he’s elected again and can’t run for a third term then the next republican president will just be a puppet for him. Not to mention the chastising of republicans that don’t support him (RINO’s) which is what drove me to switch to democrat. If there’s any republicans reading this please let me know what you think of this I’m genuinely curious of the other sides thoughts So many conservatives are saying this was inevitable because New Yorkers hate trump. They aren’t wrong about that but New Yorkers hated trump long before his political aspirations. We hated him because he was a notoriously shady business man that refused to pay his contractors. That’s the kind of scumbag these people are loyal to. **ALVIN FUCKING BRAGG** Proving that the man can't just shoot someone on 5th Ave and get away with it. Man. The thread on Conservative is fucking scary. Pretty much no one thought this case would get this far and all I see there is “kangaroo court, Dems are horrible, this solidifies my Trump vote, etc”. All it would take to stop this conviction was ONE juror. The fact that didn’t happen *should say something* but to them it says the exact opposite. Sad, man. MAGA is bragging all over Twitter about how they are going to vote for a convicted felon in November. I have never felt so much secondhand embarrassment in my life, these people are beyond pathetic. Congrats from England! Now, do us all a favour and vote to keep that absolute sausage out of office. Please. It'd be lovely if the world and all of us in it could just start taking a few, little babysteps in a sane direction.  So the party of traditional family values will be running a candidate with 3 baby mama’s and 34 felony convitions. It's telling that the thing that's making his followers more upset than anything right now is that people are happy. They have put so much energy into forcing this Trump shit into our faces for a decade now because it makes them gleeful to see how miserable he makes everyone. So be happy right now. It's totally appropriate and justified for the first time in a long time. So Donald finally won the popular vote. Everybody get in here! Historic shit His Wikipedia page has been updated as well. > Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American politician, media personality, businessman, and convicted felon who served as the 45th president of the United States from 2017 to 2021. Much better. As a lawyer who's often a skeptic of our legal system, this verdict is a breath of fresh air. Enormous kudos to Judge Merchan, Alvin Bragg, and most of all to the jury for issuing what will stand as one of the most consequential verdicts in American history. Despite what you'll see a lot of non-lawyers claim, I expect to see Trump to do some time for this. He isn't an average defendant, this isn't an average crime, and Judge Merchan has a truly historic opportunity to realize an oft-spoken but less frequently realized aspiration of the justice system: no-one is above the law. Putting Trump away for even a few months will set an example for decades or centuries to come. What comes next is this: Trump is going to lose the 2024 election. He was on shaky ground before this verdict and his chances won't survive the label of 'convicted felon.' Soon, mercifully, Donald Trump won't be our problem. But we aren't free of problems. We will need to reckon - and it will be *difficult* - with the reality that even as a felon, Trump will win many states and pull many tens of millions of votes. Those voters are our problem. They live outside of reality, willfully locked in a bubble of resentment and commercialized fear-mongering, and they will find another Donald Trump. Until as a country we're able to heal our polity, to bring these voters back to something that approximates reality, the danger hasn't passed. So all those who still believe James Buchanan is the worst President, he was never a convicted Felon. Can we all finally agree Donald Trump is the worst President in history? "I like Presidents who weren't convicted." *- Ghost of John McCain* Those 12 people just made America great again Now he cannot enter any of the 40 or so countries that don't allow felons to enter. Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Japan, South Korea... and many more. He can't visit his golf clubs in Ireland anymore. Wow Two options for the election: The Republican Candidate who is a convicted felon, wants to be a dictator, is a proven fraud and rapist, and quotes Hitler to refer to minorities. And the Democratic candidate who is a nice guy, has passed more legislation than anyone since like LBJ, and likes Ice Cream. Easy decision for me. Wooo a 34/34, perfect 100%! Highest grade Trump has ever scored on anything The first line of his wikipedia page (not by me): > Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American politician, media personality, businessman and convicted felon who served as the 45th president of the United States from 2017 to 2021. 34-0, I guess the patriots finally got a perfect season hol up lemme get banned on r/conservative real quick Hitler was put in prison for crimes involving trying to take over the government of Germany. It's time to stop pretending that people who still support Trump aren't the exact same as the Nazis. Spend 30 seconds on conservative social media and they are saying America has fallen, banana republic, sham trial, its immigrants fault (corrupting the country), liberal hit job, embarrassing for the US etc It’s wild and horrifying how much there is 2 large portions of the country living in completely different universes  E Jean Carrol, you’re up at bat again. Sue him again!!!! Don’t let him rest! 😂 Please please let him vote for himself in November and then be charged as an illegal voter Remember when the Republican Party was the party of Law and Order? Pepperidge Farm remembers. Love to see the magas and russian bots pushing the “I can’t wait to vote for trump” response. It means they are very scared that independents and the sane 10% of the GOP won’t vote for a convicted felon. If republicans were smart, they would disown this clown and take this as an opportunity to redefine their party. But they won’t because their constituents are a bunch of losers who can’t form a reasonable thought of their own Today’s ruling isn’t the sign of a banana republic; it’s the sign of a functioning republic. No one is above the law. This wasn’t decided by Biden, the judge or the media: it was decided by a group of Americans who took their civic duty seriously. God bless us. The system worked. Posting in a historic thread. Most impeachments. Most convictions. A man of all time records. Take that you BLEACH BLONDE BAD BUILT BODY  TRUMP: “I’m an innocent man.” Err, no you’re not. Convicted felon Donald J Trump. I like the sound of it. USA! USA! USA! May the wheels of justice crush this motherfucker, and all those in his orbit, to fine dust. If this doesn't immediately and permanently tank his attempt at the presidency, that'll tell you everything you need to know about the right wing in the US. Two time loser twice impeached convinced rapist convicted felon Donald Trump. I wonder if Trump is regretting the " Lock her up" chants he was cheerleading not so long ago. LOL. Are there any plans to provide protection to the jurors? It looks like Trump's gag order is going to be lifted (not that it did much in the first place), and you know the first thing he's going to do is try to activate his nutjob followers to do some stochastic terrorism. NOTE: There will be a delay with sentencing and appeals etc. etc. **But he will be a convicted felon throughout this campaign.** 34 felonies?!? At the same time!?! Hey Don, try not to committ any felonies on your way to the parking lot. Fuck Donald Trump, fuck MAGA, and God bless the jury. CNN in a few hours: "Why Trump being convicted is actually bad for Joe Biden." Twice impeached and 34-time convicted felon, Donald Trump. Wikipedia already got trump as a convicted felon. Everyone with concern over his sentence and election impact, I agree, but you can also now freely say **CONVICTED FELON DONALD J. TRUMP** Trump finally won the popular vote! Trump finally got the popular vote....of guilty. The people of New York have spoken. I’ve never been prouder to be one Let’s mark this historic occasion by forever ending the tradition of calling former presidents the title of “President” ever again. It was based purely on tradition (not law) and honor, and trump has NO HONOR. Let him forever be known as Convicted Felon Trump, proven rapist Trump, Traitor Trump or any other dishonors that he has earned many times over. Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Guilty, Fuck Trump Congratulations to Alvin Bragg and his fellow attorneys for ensuring Trump faces some measure of justice. Lock him up! Lock him up! Everyone involved from the officials to the jurors are heroes in my opinion. Standing up for truth in the face of insane threats is not easy. Convicted felon Donald Trump It sounds kinda nice, eh? Get fucked, you fascist bastards, in the US and everywhere else in the planet Trump is the most guilty former president in history. He is truly living up to the gold standard of awful human beings. Is he tired of winning yet? Guilty of 34 felonies, 2 impeachments and a litany of other dogshit. FUCK TRUMP Convicted by 12 of his fellow Manhattans. Unanimous, and fast. This needs to be emphasized. The judge and DA did not convict him. The people did. r/Conservative can finally celebrate Trump being the best at something! Keep winning clowns. What flag will the Alito’s put up tonight? r/conservative on the denial train. Jacking it so hard to their tears. This is why corrupt Republican judges are trying to stop Trump's other trials. They know Trump is guilty in those too. I love how he bashed the whole country and then said vote for me Joe Biden said the best line, "You can't only love your country when you win" We can now officially add "convicted felon" to the title of convicted felon former president Donald Trump  Please do not fear the consequences of this from his supporters. They are powered by fear, and that must be met with resistance. People are flipping him off as his motorcade is leaving the area (just heard on CNN) Historical moment coming up: twice impeached, convicted felon REELECTED to be POTUS. A very real possibility. Stop gloating. Vote. This is not over. Democrats need to hammer this home in their messaging. They need to always put the words convicted felon next to his name every time. Kinda crazy to think that Donald Trump had committed a felony by the time he was elected in 2016 Send Trump to jail, make America great again. Somebody check the Alitos' flag Imagine losing the popular vote twice but then having 12 out of 12 jurors unanimously convict you. Amazing. Finally got the popular vote. I got banned by the snowflakes at r/republican and r/Conservative I don’t have much to say besides HAHAHA FUCK YOU DONNIE, YOU FAT SACK OF SHIT🖕🏻 Immediately after the verdict was read I checked Trump's wikipedia and it said "convicted felon" in the first line. It's since been deleted lol You can't win with just the base. You need to appeal to moderates. And moderates care, at least a little, about criminal justice and punishment for crimes, or the Republican House wouldn't try to keep making Hunter Biden's laptop the greatest criminal activity since Ma Barker's gang. Let's not throw up our hands in despair at the American public just yet. So is it time to start discussing how felonies disqualify individuals from a wide range of jobs due to “security concerns”, but somehow the position of President isn’t one of those? Seems like we should be constant one way or another. Edited to add: Could states move to pass an amendment? He fucked a porn star. Then, he got fucked by a porn star. r/Conservative in shambles 'Flaired Users Only' on every article LMAO 2.22% of all Presidents are convicted Felons. 100% conviction rate. No one is better at getting convicted. Remember how since 2016 we told you, your guy will end up in prison and all y’all scoffed at us. Well… there’s a lot of days to rub it in, so I’ll just start with a basic… ‘Told ya so’ I can't believe it really happened. He was truly held accountable, holy fuck Felons shouldn’t be president. Sentencing on 7/11/24 Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! Trump 20-24 years in prison! Take a shot every time someone of fox coverage says sham trial or soros funded **Convicted Felon Donald Trump** has a nice ring to it. God I hope he just keels over and dies before the election. I’m so tired of hearing about this orange waste of oxygen. Lol conservatives can't accept justice when it is done against one of their own. So salty. But her emails! I was fully expecting the jury to deliberate for at least a week --- I can't express how relieved I am that the jury was able to deliver a verdict this soon. "Trump is a convicted felon" is a sentence I won't tire of any time soon. This was so nice to see on my feed. That the jury decided on a guilty verdict this quickly really tells how easy it was to come to that conclusion Honestly thought this would take longer and was very likely to end up with a hung jury. This was unexpectedly.....normal. Can't wait for the meltdown now and during sentencing. A former president and a current presumptive nominee is a convicted felon. This is simultaneously the only conclusion that makes any sense and completely unbelievable. It's a very good day for America. holy fuck lol. this is historic Are you guys talking about convicted felon Donald Trump? It's absolutely adorable that conservatives actually think that the median American voter buys into their pathetic crybully victim complex and will think that the brain dead insurrectionist narcissist game show host felon is some righteous martyr. These people are just LARPing through their miserable lives. Former President, future convicted felon Donald Jackass Trump... EDIT: To everyone jumping in to correct me. Due to quirks of NY state law dJt isn't a convicted felon unitl he is sentenced. Holy shit. It really happened. I can't believe it. It really happened. Holy shit. Lock him up! rule of law won today. the constitution won today. the founding principles of america won today. our country won today. So at what point, if any, does the GOP understand the meaning of the sunk cost fallacy? Rhetorical, of course. The answer is Republicans decide that crime only matters if they say it does, because whatever they say goes. They will go full authoritarian behind their convicted felon fuhrer. Actual MAGA post: “I just want to cry right now. Prayers” Haha it's already been said somewhere but just like that.... America's been saved by a porn star.  It probably shouldn't, but why does this give me at least a sliver of hope that justice might still exist somewhere? As a Canadian, all I can say is holy fucking shit, I can't believe it finally happened I'm truly confused. So, as a convicted felon Trump can, apparently, still run for President, but he's not allowed to vote? Do I understand that correctly? ||edit: Many, many thanks to all who replied; I very much appreciate your help! Reading the seething cope and straight up denialism on r/Conservative is hilarious. The lot who claim to be on the side of "law and order" lmao. Holy shit, the system worked this time. Former president and convicted felon Donald j trump I don't have anything to add. Just wanted to type that out because it feels good to type it and read it I love this for him. He got 100% of the vote!! Teflon Don, rapist, philanderer, 34 time felon.  If I were a reporter, I'd start asking every republican senator/congressman what their view on voting rights for convicts is. Would probably get some hilarious answers. The Republican Party is now officially the part of "Ignore the Law Obey my Orders" I wish Hillary Clinton a very pleasant Thursday. NYT: “Why Donald Trump Running as a Convicted Felon is Bad News for Biden” No not *those courts*. It’s true the sticky bandits have yet to be caught after all these years "I would like to appeal on the grounds that the judge could not possibly have been unbiased after I insulted him so much." Normally a "first offender" probably would not get prison time. But the judge is supposed to take into account whether the convict has expressed remorse and what the odds are that he's likely to commit more crimes. Trump's little stunts and bullshit, including the fact that he repeatedly violated the gag order, should be considered by the judge when it comes to sentencing. And 100% of the vote! His claims are finally true! Oh Lordy! I’m just imagining him not being able to attend. I almost wish the judge would just give him seven days in lock up so he couldn’t attend the fucking convention. I’m imagining him dialing in on some shitty Internet connection and freezing from the lag like Gavin Belson on Silicon Valley. Fucking yes *honey, not the swastika!* Maggity Traitor Grift just posted the upside down insurrection flag on Twitter They’ve had to switch to a system of coloured smoke like the Vatican, due to all the scrutiny Alito: "CLERK! Get the books. You're staying up all night tonight. Find a way for SCOTUS to extend a presidential pardon to a state felony involving the same president, STAT!" Clerk: "Bu- bu- but, Justice Alito, there is no law on point for that." Alito: "I. Don't. Give. A. Shit. Make something up. Originalism! Presidents couldn't be convicted of state crimes in 1776 because there were no states yet. My dog ate our constitution, so this was the best we could come up with. Jesus Christ, Clerk. DO SOMETHING!" Exactly. We have had to deal with this POS on a daily basis since 2015. It is like being in an abusive relationship that you can't leave. I pointed out back during the 2016 election cycle that Trump had already been a punchline *thirty years prior* and the notion that he was now (then) becoming a political force was simply too stupid to be real. And we have to hope that’s all it is. It’s insane that people want to live in a fascist hellhole under this guy. And it won’t make me feel any better when afterwards everyone realizes that fascism sucks for *them* too. No amount of /r/LeopardsAteMyFace posts will make me feel better about the destabilization of the whole world because people were too stupid to actually understand what they were doing. I wonder if he's tired of winning yet. Combined! They chanted "lock her up!" for months, and Trump said to Hilary's face at a debate that if he wins she's going to go to jail. Lock him up! Isn't that right party of "law and order"? Since he has been convicted he in no longer under investigation for this crime. Checkmate Atheists. Hillary being under investigation and later cleared: she’s guilty!! She cannot under any circumstances be president ever! Lock her up! Trump indicted in four separate jurisdictions, convicted on 34 felony counts (so far): This is a weaponization of the criminal justice system. Every judge is an anti-Trump judge and they’re just out to get him because he’s so successful. This is Biden’s doing. Whatever. Tonight I celebrate Trump finally, FINALLY seeing something resembling consequences. Well, second, after Cohen's. He wasn’t even supposed to BE in court today! Did he say “making fuck”? Hey! Get back here. Conservatives are coping hard I mean, who hasn't falsified business records to cover up an affair with a porn star so that it wouldn't affect their election to federal office? let the one among you who has never falsified business records to hide election fraud cast the first stone I read that same comment and I literally yelled YES. THEY *CAN*. and accidentally scared my cats and send one scrambling up the stairs lol. It's because in their minds he's innocent Their line of thinking is "if they can just throw this innocent *Ex-President* in jail, then they can throw *all of us* in jail, *even if* we're innocent" The problem with their logic being that he's guilty as sin >"If they can do this to a former president, they can do this to anybody." Convict a criminal of committing a crime? Yes please. "You know who does not testify in their trials? Guilty people." - Donald Trump Seriously. She really jumped on a grenade for this. Her life has forever been broken by this. She said she is likely to leave the country to escape the targeted violence and harassment. Alvin Bragg and Letitia James too, hopefully more names to be added soon. Funny how much more respect I have for her than the last president of the United States, lol. And her testimony was pretty funny! May 30th National Holiday “Stormy Daniels Day” The devil works hard, but Wikipedia editors work harder (and faster). If it was, It's not anymore It's funny how they make all of the posts "Flaired Users Only" and still 90% of the comments get deleted in every thread This time last year they were all in on DeSantis and were openly mocking trump and saying he was done. These people have zero integrity or character. Pretending this will get Trump more votes is the only copium they can come up with about this. There's no other positive spin they could invent. In all seriousness - they and their families are probably going to need 24/7 protection for many years, if not the rest of their lives. The cultists are crazy and hold grudges a long, long time. I really hope they’re going the extra mile to keep them safe. I heard he doxxed the juror that dropped out. If there’s a fund for these people to get lifelong protection, I’ll donate. People that aren't allowed to buy guns shouldn't have the nuclear codes He committed these crimes before he made those appointments. Sounds like a perfect case for nullifying those. Everything he did in those 4 years needs to be 100% undone. He is, was, and will always be a criminal. All while sound asleep. First of 3 Even when he wins, he's a loser It's official. The candidate of the party for "Law and Order" is a convicted felon. Thanks for posting this. It will help a lot of people understand The number of comments I've seen yelling that he paid her off with campaign funds drives me nuts. Using campaign funds is what he was supposed to do. Because the payment would be disclosed. He's in trouble for hiding the payments and lying about it. Nice break down, thank you. Literally just watched some douche bag argue on the news that "no one can explain what he did wrong" "this was a victimless crime of it happened and that no one understands the actual crime because there was none" Anyway, nice break down. Seems this breakdown should be posted all over to counter that dumbass argument. Mind blowing. A bad fart used to end a campaign for President. Okay, but remember when Obama wore a tan suit though? Stop the count! Yeah but the other ones are all being held up by GOP cronies. None of them will have a trial by Election Day. For those in the back, this is AN ELECTION INTERFERENCE CASE You’re not wrong, but I’d also like to remind everyone of all the shady shit he’s done his entire life. It will likely never come up in court, but it’s hard to get to this stage of illegality in one’s life without also being involved in shit for years and years. Everything about this guy is awful. And I’ll toast your glass, friend! It’s funny seeing the whiners over in /r/conservative cry which hunt or how this solidifies that they’re voting for Trump (like they weren’t anyway?) but no one can actually point out why this wasn’t a perfectly valid case and how/why Trump should not be convicted You forgot rapist. E Jean Carroll is probably going to sue him again Donnie's in a prison cell, people power! That taco bell dog has it coming though. > Best thing Trump can do right now is shut up and show contrition It seems more likely for him to flap his little arms and start flying than do what you suggest. "join us today on 'When math becomes shameful'." He is also currently having a total meltdown at the microphone with his typical world salad bullshit. He’s blaming Joe Biden lmao. And somehow felt the need to bring up immigrants? What a colossal loser. He’s also blaming the “conflicted judge” as if he doesn’t have a conflicted judge batting for him in Florida. See you later Felon Donnie. I'm so confused by their "there was no victim that means there was no crime sham trial"... like what? I understand not-understanding... but fraud charges are well documented, it's just outright ignoring the last 6 months of the trial and coverage. Jfc, in one of the threads someone says "this just opened a can...now it'll be tit for tat", to which someone else replied "yeah, that won't happen because Republicans always take the high road." How fucking stupid are these people? "Their side" couldn't find the high road if you laid them on top of it and ran them over with a steamroller. Smooth brains on r/conservative : “I’m gonna vote for him harder! Even 4 or 5 times again!” They're so fucking stupid haha I'm sorry, can you repeat that, please? You mean the "tough on crime" conservatives? The "law and order" people? Funny that. Media: Donald Trump convicted on all charges, here's how this is bad for Joe Biden "We love convicted felons!" but her emails!!! I saw an article claiming it wouldn't make a difference if Trump was convicted because when polled, only 7% of Trump supporters said a felony conviction would change their vote. Well let's assume that \*only\* 5% of Trump supporters change their vote due to these convictions-that's still MORE than enough to swing the election. And rapist.. Fox news is so fucking dishonest to their viewers, "we don't know what the charges are", fuck off, yes you do. Now they're shifting to this will never be upheald in an appeal.  The fact that all we can say is > This election is more winnable than ever. ...rather than, the election is completely decided, is... uh, sad? Your first mistake is assuming consistency. They would say ‘yes’ to that case but still believe that the _exact same situation_ applied to their beloved would be a witch hunt. MAGAs don't think  Yup, this is the case that straight LABELS him convicted felon Like we already KNOW he's a fraud both from a brain and the civil trials.. And we already KNOW he's a rapist, both from having a brain and the civil trials And this beautiful case wrapped sex and copious fraud into a neat little package for a label he simply can't pretend isn't there! Convicted Felon Donald Trump. Start calling him 34 from now on Watching on an airport bar TV and ABC has a giant red **Guilty on All 34 Counts** graphic with his scowling mug. It's glorious. All the talk for years of the "Evil criminal Democrat party!!" Donald Trump is a jury convicted felon. I’m proud of you lol, exactly. Not a court that has a judge AND jury. Just a court packed full of very partisan judges appointed by* their respective political parties. Edit: typo This is his strategy, unironically. I dont think he gets jail time, but man would I love community service. Jail or house arrest, he can spin that as some defiant shit, but being told to go pick up trash? To him, I cant think of anything more degrading. Michael Cohen was sentenced to 3 years for the same crimes, and the same conspiracy. He finally won the popular vote in an absolute landslide! It would be hilarious but I don't have a single molecule of faith in my body that he will spend even a single hour behind literal bars. They'll fine him out the ass and throw him on probation for a couple years and we'll still have to hear about this fuckin skinwalker on the news every five minutes or so. Fucking yes is right! Now I wonder how many "Back the Blue" signs and 'Thin Blue Line' stickers and shirts we'll see at this year's ~~Klan~~ ~~G**Q**P~~ RNC. "After a dispute with a neighbor we needed to try to gain some good luck via a traditional Hindu symbol!" And 1/3 of the people around you act like the abuse doesn’t exist and another 1/3 are too afraid to say anything. Cuz that’s been the GOP’s strategy for years now - whatever shit they’re doing, just accuse the Dems of doing. Did the MAGA folks ever have an official company line on why Trump *didn't* "lock her up" when he was President? Seeing as his followers think he was going to drain that swamp and have the power to fix everything... Party of law and order is holding up rape kit funding. https://www.cornyn.senate.gov/news/cornyn-house-must-pass-senate-bill-to-fight-rape-kit-backlog/ https://www.endthebacklog.org Whaddaya mean you don’t got any ice? You mean I gotta drink this covfefe hot?! Did he say "making fuck?" "*My hate for you is big like Trump, HAMBUUURGER!*" One of my favorite fun facts is that the guy who is walking away when Dante says that is Mitch Cohen, the man who played TOXIE himself, The Toxic Avenger. The tears are flowing on Twitter lmao. They can’t “fake news” their way out of this one. Mango Mussolini is convicted on 34 out of 34 counts. “I was the greatest criminal in the history of criminals!” Loool  Oh man I did that once in my 20s *Yeets stone at Trump tower.* You know who pleads the fifth? Guilty people -Donald Trump  Her twitter feed was awesome. When people sent her abusive messages, she would correct their spelling and grammar. https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Donald_Trump&action=history Look how many times it’s been edited today Seriously, I went to r/conservative to see that shitshow and someone was going on about how the liberals are the real Nazis and that they want to destroy this country. To them, "liberal" is anyone they think is against Trump. You have to think of the number of other nutjobs who think the same. I think only if he wins. If he does he will absolutely target anyone that was on that jury. Voters should make sure that he is handed a resounding defeat in November. This \^\^\^\^\^ 1000%. As a felon you lose your right to own a gun, but you can still have access to the most dangerous weapons in the world? Make it make sense. He’s incompetent AND a mastermind. You talking about twice impeached, convicted felon, Donald J Trump? I've read this before and it's a weirdest thing. Nobody can explain what he did wrong! Fraud. He committed fraud. He fraudulently altered business records. Who was the victim? The people of the state of New York. They did the same thing in the civil fraud trial. No victim! They cried. A law doesn't need to define a victim. It merely needs to make a specific conduct criminal. This is known in law school classrooms as "the attempted murder of a corpse". It's a basic legal maxim that if you shoot a gun at someone with the intent of killing them you have committed attempted murder *even if* they happen to be dead at the time. Literally "no victim" because the person you were trying to kill *was already dead*. It doesn't matter. You still *intended* to kill someone when you shot at them. That's still attempted murder, even if the murder was literally impossible, as you shot a corpse you thought was a person. "And we're going to South Dakota and Oregon and Washington and Michigan, and then we're going to Washington, D.C., to take back the White House!" - Howard Dean Being too enthusiastic once ended a campaign. Did you say an ELECTION INTERFERENCE CASE regarding CONVICTED FELON DONALD J. TRUMP? And bankrupt, several times over. It's not the most important detail but it gets under his skin. I hope she does Yo quero Trump in jail Talking shit about the judge who's about to sentence you is an interesting strategy lol. And all fraud has a victim anyways. In this case, every single fucking American is the victim, because that fraud is what helped get him elected. Oh, that’s terrifying that someone could be that deluded. Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty That's only poor people crime... Rich people should be able to do whatever they want to whomever they want. Because one day... one day I'm gunna get my payday and be rich too. /s Depends on the state and where they are. It varies by state. But for the record, felons *should* be allowed to vote. Otherwise it incentivizes government to convict their political opponents and disproportionately strips minorities of their right to vote. He hasn't even been nominated yet. In any sane timeline this would cause his party to reject him as the nominee and put forward a non-criminal as a candidate. This has been made really clear over and over again (/r/LeopardsAteMyFace). Everything from healthcare, social services, welfare, immigration, and abortion. (https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2022/07/31/republican-women-have-abortions-too-00048632) but don't think their abortions are wrong. It's sickening. He doesn't have a strategy he just...does stuff. A reporter on NPR said typical sentencing for something like this is probation to 4 years in prison. Yeah he ain’t going to jail. Plus he’ll definitely appeal. We all know he's a criminal. Legally though he has no priors so in the interest of appearing as impartial as possible I suspect he will get a probation sentence. Even if they give him prison, which would be legit if only because of the gag order violations and public conduct, they'll almost certainly defer the sentence pending appeal and he will absolutely appeal. Today was a good thing, but our legal system is still wholly incapable of holding the powerful accountable. ~~RNC~~ TNC now that Lara Trump is draining the coffers. But these were ‘democrat’ cops and a ‘democrat’ judge. Surely my local cop is a freedom loving patriot. "But Justice, the Hindu symbol actually faces the other way." "Oh, you see, uh, my wife, what an idiot she is, she hung it up backwards, that's all. Entirely my wife's fault, always screwing up, and always hanging out under buses." Of course not, it was just something they could chant. Visit r/trump and the thread about this... Fuck your yankee blue jeans Turned on the F news station and they are twisting hard. “This is an attack on our justice system by the deranged left,” “this is what countries like Brazil and Venezuela do to their political figures,” “if you want to secure American and our justice system, donate to Trump, lest we turn into Venezuela.” “Deranged” left. ::laughs in deranged:: You liberal millennial bisexuals are always late to the party. Us REAL Americans were falsifying business records to cover up a hush money payment to a porn star to avoid conflicting with our office campaigns at 8 years old!! That single page may need its own server rack. Some of those opposed people on the talk page are heavily involved in other republican heavy topics, color me surprised. (DocZach in particular seems to be a conservative friendly fellow) Imagine saying "they're the real Nazis" when You've likely got Nazis in your audience that identify as Nazis. I went to r/Republican to post something that would get me banned. But I was already banned so I must've beaten myself to it Lmao they're calling it election interference  The enemy is both strong and weak. Classic fascism. Well, he can’t vote in New York and Florida, so unless he suddenly moves somewhere else, the MF ain’t voting for himself. Edit: apparently he can vote in Florida until he reports to prison, and NY seems to follow this Florida law. Edit 2: it’s the other way round. He can vote in NY and Florida seems to follow that I’m told. This party is insane though. They ONLY care about power. And there's no way they can win without Trump. This is the corner they painted for themselves and all of us. Imagine being Trump’s PO. lol reply jeans tan encouraging adjoining rainstorm smell modern relieved friendly *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with (https://redact.dev/home)* Which is doubly funny because Brazil IS also prosecuting a criminal ex-president. I love the idea of the people who keep changing it back. As if writing a lie on an online encyclopedia will change anything. They're desperately trying to fight the inevitable tide with a paper cup. Let me guess, “It’s biased to state important character defining facts in an opening paragraph.” >“John Wilkes Booth (May 10, 1838 – April 26, 1865) was an American stage actor and member of the prominent 19th-century Booth theatrical family from Maryland, who was a leading actor of his time and was called by critics “the handsomest man in America" and a "natural genius". Oh, the irony I can just imagine Florida’s elected republicans voting to exempt him. I’m a recovering Parole Officer and Trump would be a fucking nightmare. Those are things that normal people don't want to do to the guy who determines your sentence. But any normal person would have already been in jail for those things. They've already shown him extreme leniency. I won't believe that will change until they actually change it. A lot of hubub for being known for something or it being historical... which I'd argue the first convicted felon former president is absolutely one of those things. Maybe they will finally accept the constitutional amendment passed years ago to allow former felons to vote that the legislature flat out ignored after it was passed I thought former felons could vote, as long as they have no outstanding debt with the legal system, which the legal system has no requirement to tell them about, and it's nearly impossible to sus out any outstanding debt, but woe to you that votes with legal debt. Yep, this is how they fucked with it. And DeSantis sent his goons to arrest people for it too, even though they had been told they could vote by county/state officials. One of the videos had the arrestee ask why they were being arrested and the officer responded that he didn't really know. It is unconscionable. Can I work for you? This is fucking magical. Amazing! I bet your department loves you, and I bet they work their tails off for you. So awesome. > caused a new rule to be put in place about how much you are allowed to spend at one time. "At one time..." Heh heh heh. "Top ten BBQ"..."in Dallas/FW area"...I'm sitting here drooling. And chuckling. Everyone wants a day off to spend time with friends and family relaxing. I'm in IT and spend most of my time on the computer at work and at home. I still had the 4th of July off and spent the day hiking and just enjoying life to it's fullest. Everyone deserves to be treated with respect, full stop. We all have lives outside of work. Just because I enjoy video games doesn't make my time worth less than someone who enjoys watching football. OP, mad respect for how you handled that. That "you guys don't have lives" thing just blows my mind. It's like the attitude bigots hold towards various minorities - a complete denial of agency and worth. Treating other people like, well, people shouldn't be that hard to figure out. wow. that's pretty crazy. We had a VP complaining about "un-entered expenses" because our company cards auto-populated our expense software. So they decide to send out a nastygram calling out all those who have expenses that haven't been attributed to either a job or corporate event. in their haste, the 5-figure tab from a strip club was included. At a time when the rank and file were pressed to reduce any and all unnecessary expenses. there were some rather unpleasant workers after that. I ran a team of support engineers for a big $ corporation I worked for almost 10 years ago. I had something similar happen but it was over Thanksgiving Holiday. My team supported the entire division. A Sr. Director over another department that my team supported sent me an email that my team would have to be in the office over the thanksgiving holiday. I flat out said no. They went livid and started blasting me about the business need and how critical it was. My response was to add every ducking body on CC -- including their team alias. I said "My team is willing to support any team that will be required to be in the office during this four day holiday. In order to ensure folks have access please provide me a list of people that will be in the office so we can make sure the right support team is available. the Sr. Directory replied to to me directly, removing everyone from the CC and gave me a list of names and thanked me for having my team give up their holiday for them. I added everyone back include the VP and Senior VP and asked "Can I get confirmation from the individuals there so that we can ensure their access works so they won't be locked out with no one but us around." Their team went to HR to complain that they had never been told to be the office and found out from me that they were supposed to. HR asked me for everything including slack conversations where they were most adamant how it was required and I didn't have a choice. not long after that I received an email from the Senior VP that the request was cancelled and to tell my team to enjoy their holiday. Not long I was introduced to that team's new Director. Spectacular. Thank you for doing that, I work in infosec and we always have to work over holidays. Love that you did this for your team! They love you too - you definitely just earned some loyalty points for sure, and I hope the higher ups recognize that, especially during a time when it’s really really difficult to hire in the tech space. And let's not forget another fantastic part - the FAMILIES WERE THERE. Next time someone tries to poach a worker, the manager has built up some equity with the spouse and children. You don't hire a worker, you hire a family. Treat them right. No, you can't swap happy feelings for inadequate pay. EDIT: didn't finish that last thought. No, you can't swap happy feelings for inadequate pay. However, all things being equal, when the worker talks with their SO about an opportunity, you want "will it be as great as your current place with OP" to be a part of the conversation. I also strongly recommend you make this an annual thing. Maybe not the whole thing on the company tab, but let the company buy the meat and have a sides potluck You are the best. It's Also great that your boss backs you up. This post is exactly why I come to this subreddit. A well composed story, actual malicious compliance, an actual pay off that's worthy of the build up, and to top it all off, an actual fallout and consequence!!! Too many posts on here just breeze through (or don't even mention) the aftermath. This is beautiful. If you haven't already you should post this in r/talesfromtechsupport as well. Don’t mess with a Texan and their BBQ plans.. we will riot.. >In Active Directory she does not have the down arrow of death I love having this unique way of following up on office drama, very satisfying. Happy your MC ended positively, not only for you or your team, but even families and friends! IT is often a lot like the janitor or facilities in a place. When things go well, you don't even notice they exist. When something goes bad, you expect them to drop everything and attend to your emergency. My boss would have called the CEO directly to complain about the abuse of power from the other VP. It does sound like you guys had an epic party though. Should print up some pictures, post them up everywhere in the office and caption them "Thanks for the awesome party ", just to rub it in. A great story. I'm confused tho, why did this Bad VP get to have any say as to whether or not your team was in the office? And why on earth would anyone have gone along with it if it was literally only your team in? Wouldn't the company just be closed that day? I typically don’t read post that are this long, but I’m sure glad I did. This was fucking amazing hahaha as a guy who is in the IT field, sorta, this hits home. Good stuff. Not me reading this thinking “hell I could still have a party for 4K no sweat” when I have never had a corporate card and get reimbursed for things like “$3 for paper clips because we were out.” This is why I come here. Outstanding Did you all get holiday pay for being there? That would have pushed the costs up beyond what he BBQ cost. You know you are a legend when a new work policy is implemented because of you. Fantastic job!!! Take your gold. You earned it! Great job looking out for your employees and sticking it to the Bad VP. Are you hiring? Barbe Queue the malicious compliance. Why couldn't I find you when I still lived there? I was going to ITT Tech - Arlington until they closed in 2016, with me being ONE class from my associates degree. Worked at Fry's Electronics off of I-20 at the time as well. OP, if you want the best burgers I have had in DFW, check out Fork in the Road located in Arlington. As a fellow IT worker, good for you looking out for your team. Except for that one Bad VP it sounds like you work for a unicorn company. One of those mythical places that is run by people that don't have their heads up their asses. Lucky you. Well done! It was scorched earth time as soon as Bad VP said you don’t have lives. It baffles me that she was dense enough to own that statement later, but I love watching people dig their own hole. Thanks for the laugh and I’m glad you were able to salvage some celebration out of it! I need a cigarette after reading this. I worked for Verizon wireless tech support in 2018/2019. They scheduled the entire call center off on memorial day except for our team of about 12 employees. Our shift was 2pm to 11pm. As you can imagine, we had very few calls that day. Home office called halfway through our shift asking why so many agents were idle, and my boss said "if you wanted to schedule us on a holiday, you're going to pay us to sit here and do nothing" They refused to let us go home so we all got paid to sit there our entire shift 🤷‍♀️ Canadian here..... inspiring response. This belongs on r/ProRevenge   I don't believe any of this for a second. Too many things fit right into the malicious compliance fantasy scenario/outcome. Also chancing $6k on a company credit card when you've made well aware you were frustrated with the situation is such a thin line to walk. As soon as there's a receipt for actual company money.. well that could easily have landed you in some real hot water, no matter how understanding you believed your corporate officers to be. Why was one VP ordering around another VP's people? Sweet, sweet justice. I live in DFW and am always looking for good BBQ places. What did you cater? >A small group volunteered to stay behind to clean up including my VP. This is the epitome of a leader. Not only did he clearly support OP and his department by attending the event, he stayed afterwards to help clean up. He did not deign himself to be above all that. This is the type of person whose followers say "I would follow this man into Hell." Amazing story!! Great build-up, loved being able to imagine the feast you had, loved that employees didn't need to spend a dime and took away +6k worth of deliciousness. What kind of cuts of turkey? And what are the two kinds of tater salad? Would OP mind revealing the general geographic area the story took place? Great story, 10/10, great consequence for the shit VP, love when Karens get what's coming to them. In other news though, where do you work that you can play video games at work lmao BBQ must have been Hard Eight As an IT grunt. I love this story. > My team is the IT team and, as many of you know IT team gets shafted every time it can get shafted by any company. As someone who works in IT, I can wholeheartedly confirm this. "Never tell me to go wild." - This fucking legend How often is it that when the (typically) benign top person is away, some seething minion takes it upon themselves to make everyone's lives a misery just to get off on the power trip. This is a minor example, but back in high school in the UK, when the headmaster (principal) went away for a bit, his deputy, long resentful of being passed over for the top job, decreed that every desk in the place (real old ones with flip tops and built-in bench seats) had to be cleaned of its accumulated graffiti by whatever tools the students could bring in from home. Thank Heaven the top guy got back in a week or two. Managers like Bad VP are why im in HR! I gave up reading about 1/10th of the way through, all I caught was you get paid to play video games at work. Love your tales. I had a boss like you named Pierre, he was the shit. We need more bosses like you.  Drop that name for the BBQ place  This was absolutely worth the XL tag. Thank you for sharing, and for kicking ass! I worked at a business where the owner said we wouldn't get the 4th off because it fell on a weekend. His father was at Pearl Harbor and sometimes came to the office. He was at the office that afternoon and I told him that not getting a day off for the 4th was a bigger deal than not getting a day off on December 7th. Next thing I know he's in his son's office yelling at him at the top of his lungs. Boss comes out and we got at day off for the 4th and we now got 7th off or the closest work day. Only place I worked where you got Pearly Harbor day off. I am a chef, and occasionally I cater large corporate events. If I knew that this was corporate fuckery, I would have completely hooked you up. Good job👍 Throwing firecrackers into… a stream? WHERE ARE THE PICTURES? SHOW US THE FOOD DAMN YOU. Water balloons are for everyone, not just children 😤 IT don’t have lives says the person who has nothing better to do on a holiday than call in to check up on everyone. Lmfao "down arrow of death" for a disabled AD account. Gonna have to steal that one <Well 7 calls did come in, but from the same person. The Bad VP. She was calling to make sure we were manning the phones. So who doesn't have a life again? When you told us about VP showing up with wife and kids, I knew he was a great sport. this has to be my favorite malicious compliance i’ve ever read, thank you kind sir! >you guys don't have lives >calls work 7 times on a holiday to police their work Yeah, someone doesn't have a life. There’s Malicious Compliance, then there is this. Fucking God Tier mate! 😂👌🏻👌🏻👌🏻 > (Its not stocked and only 1 foot deep.) I don’t know anything about this stream, and I don’t think throwing some firecrackers in the water is a big deal, but FYI neither of these facts tells anything about the fish community there. Only game fish are stocked, and they don’t necessarily have to be stocked to be present, and there are tons of small native fishes that live in streams smaller than a foot deep. A friend of mine in grad school did his dissertation on an endangered species of darter that only had 2 known populations, one of which was in a very small trickle of a creek running through a golf course of all places. By the way, If you’ve never seen a darter some of them are super beautiful. They are some of my favorite fish. Definitely my favorite non-game fish. Aside from fishes, small streams are also home to many amphibians, which are also not stocked. "Strangely there is now no longer any push back for my bid to get everyone back to working from home." As good as the story is nothing is better than this part. $6-7K isn't even that bad. You could have made it a lot worse. What a complete piece of shit VP. Good for you bro fuck them. You might not want to say that you're friends with the owner of the expensive BBQ place that the company had to pay for. That could cost money out of your own pocket, or even termination, at many companies. Hats off to you. Bad VP spent her holiday calling you, so she spent her day off trying to ruin other people's day. I'd like to work for you as well. I have a degree in networking and am going back to get some certs for network security/admin. Haha you forgot to hire hookers and coke for the VIP area 🤣 Worth the read You did get the national boss of the year award for this right?!?!?! May all that awesome karma find it's way back to you quickly. 😊 great job boss! 👏 I have a justice boner This is the most maliciously beautiful thing I have ever read. There's bosses and then there's leaders. Leaders see those who work for them as people who's happiness and success depends on them. They encourage, nurture and PROTECT their team. Well done sir! You are a hero and I'd bet your folks would follow you through hell and back without even asking them. I think this will go down as one of, if not, the best case of malicious compliance in Reddit history Hello, Dallas guy here. I don't know where OP got the BBQ but Pecan Lodge is pretty good and if I was going to do what they did that is where I would go. At this point, I believe your team would run through a block wall for you. That’s the most awesome office party I’ve ever heard of. Very nice work. 10/10. >Please stop asking me where the restaurants are. Im not doxxing myself. heh you have a super detailed description with tons of people attending, higher ups will know too. Someone will recognize it now that it reached reddit frontpage. I think you doxxed yourself already anyway. was this place terry black bbq? Do you have any idea what was driving her demand that your group works on site that day? What her goal or intention was? From the description...I can say a few things...your it group got your own lair...awesome....and fireworks are legal What I learned from this... Choose your words wisely and never tell anyone to "go wild" as you hand them a credit card. Good job OP Anyone who aas to 1) ask permission to do this and 2) put so much in writing to "protect yourself" in doing so is at the wrong level to do this. Sorry, but you may had screwed the pooch on this. Nice try however. As an IT guy forced to work 2 Christmas holidays in a row and never allowed to work from home until Covid hit - I applaud you. IT is a thankless job. If everything is working, "what do we pay them for?" If anything is broken, "what do we pay them for?" These stories refill my sad, bitter, shriveled heart. This sounds like a Christmas party my Dad held 40 years ago when he was a regional manager for the De Bartolo corporation in the Midwest The BBQ came from Hard 8, not Dickey’s Well done you magnificent bastard. If I'm the boss of the Bad VP, I'm making sure that one and only one employee is working on each and every holiday--the Bad VP. No working from home, either. She will be called every half hour on an office land line, which will be different each half hour (to make sure she stays on company property). No alcohol, no outside catering. Happy Thanksgiving! Merry Christmas! Oh, you didn't get to do anything other than be at the office? What a shame! As an IT person myself who was usually the one on call for holidays because I “was single and didn’t have kids,” you are my hero! I can’t believe you aren’t going to tell us which BBQ spot this is. What if there is one in DFW that I haven’t tried yet and I’m somehow missing out in this life!!!!! Hey r/talesfromtechsupport would absolutely LOVE this u/TheLightningCount1 Work interviewers: We're like a family in this business. OP: I see where this is going. This has appeared on NotAlwaysRight, as if it was from this year. Any updates, though? Please tell me you tipped these restaurants and added it to the company tab? That would be glorious. Me too? My skillset includes knowing how to answer phones, how to turn the computer both off and on, and how to google. I also play video games (sometimes at work). If I lived in DFW, I'd apply for L1 support. I have phone, customer service, and technical expertise spanning a little over 20 years... ...and I've never worked for a company that would treat their people so nicely. Me too! I can order food like a champ! Yeah this made reddit worth reading today. I too would like it, however I'm Canadian and have to be remote lol. Username checks out Friggin same! I have tons of IT experience. It's my current job. Except I work at a hospital and we've been coming in through the whole flipping pandemic. At one job, I was dubbed "speaker to management" and "translator of engineering." I once wrote a 40 page technical document, rewrote to 7 pages for my group's management, 1 page for senior management, 1 paragraph for the CIO. Then summed it up in one sentence in the meeting with the CIO. I have half an IT diploma please hire me op The funny thing is… For $6K this guy basically created one of the best team-building events that will ever happen. A speaker alone could easily be $5K. A retreat could cost $20-50K. If even one person decides to stay with the company for another year because of this event that’s basically a 4X ROI.  This is how to be a manager. Have your teams back. I just wrote in my annual review how much it means to me that my manager takes my physical and mental health seriously. Tell him I can be reached by phone on vacation "no you cannot, direct anyone who bugs you to me". Feeling burnt out from debugging assembly code and binary data files for most of the day, "maybe you should take a walk... For the rest of the day. It's not good to be sitting too long you know " It genuinely makes me feel okay to say yes to new projects and to keep pushing and expanding my expertise. I love my job and my manager is a huge part of that. Edit: commas are hard, thanks to comments below And that’s how it came to pass that on the holiday of the Fourth of July, the IT crew that kept the company running in the spring of ’22 wound up sitting in a row at 7 o’clock in the evening, eating fresh and hot Texas style BBQ, courtesy of the hardest VP that ever walked a turn at : "As long as there's no alcohol or fireworks on company property, go wild." The colossal prick even managed to sound magnanimous. We sat and ate with the fireworks in our eyes and felt like free men. Hell, we could have been celebrating the day at one of our own houses. We were the lords of all creation. As for OP, he spent that evening manning the phone, a strange little smile on his face, watching us eat his food. You could argue he’d done it to curry favor with the upper management or maybe make a few friends among us workers. Me? I think he just did it to feel normal again, if only for a short while. Future Executive. This is a perfect story to illustrate the difference between a **boss** and a **leader**. The Bad VP acted as a boss. Someone that over manages and usually does so to elevate themselves. OP acted as a leader. Someone that represents the people that work for him and goes above and beyond to keep their work/life balance in tact. Great job OP. I wish the world had more **leaders** like you 👏 At a past job, my VP hosted a business dinner at an expensive steakhouse with a wine/cigar bar. The bill ended up being $15k, but the VP could only approve expense reports up to $5k. So he had the check split four ways so his four directors could expense $3750 each and he could approve them all. A month later, there was a policy update that the *most senior person present* had to submit all expenses to *their* boss, and no split checks were allowed. "See, I ordered the beverages for 2pm, bbq for 6pm, and the desserts for 7pm. Three different times. Technically within the rules." Lolol had a rule similar to this at my past job, so I ended up sending in invoices for with one or two items that were below the limit. I may or may not have short circuited this same rule in my organization years back. I wound up breaking most of my IT orders into separate receipts. So accounting had like 4 times as much paperwork to deal with. And I had less approvals to deal with. Win win for me. Me too! I’m about to visit family in DFW and want to know where the good BBQ is so I can eat some! I live in DFW. Please tell me what the BBQ place is. Lol. And also the company, I also know how to play video games. Hard 8 is definitely on my list! We are there a few days ago. Pecan lodge, maybe? Immediately knew Texas when he had both smoked brisket and bratwurst. I agree. Op handled it the way any respectable manager or team lead should. He stood up for his team and when he couldn’t get what they wanted(through no fault of his or lack of effort) he did the next best he could; throw a crazy expensive party of the company’s dime who is forcing them to be there on a national holiday when they’re not needed. It’s one thing to be needed. For example, I’m in security and was security director of an entire mall. So I had approximately 12 guards under me at any given time on rotation. Now we are 24/7 security and that includes every single national holiday. Our company offers double time for them but I’d ask the people who wants it and they’d volunteer 90% of the time. If no one did, I’d just have to suck it up and take the shift myself. But if they did, I always gave them a thank you basket at the very least. Just an extra $20 out of my pocket along with snacks and candy. Maybe a new blade, flashlight, or even key-baks I got for them all for last Christmas so we all don’t have to sit there and take keys off our belt every time we open a door and put them back on. I respect this type of management. People have lives and just bc we can work on a national holiday doesn’t mean we should have to. I have my fiancé and our four kids I’d rather be at home with.  I honestly just quit my IT job at a hospital because of shit like this (and no good managers or parties either) the mental stress was not worth it. Now I'm job hunting but I honestly feel 1000000x better already In IT if you have time to play video games then you've done everything right. You don't want an active IT putting out fires, you want one that plans for the future then watches things go according to plan. People get the perception that IT people are getting paid for nothing, but it's like a good surgeon. Years of experience to implement very specific work that will hopefully bare years of trouble free existence. > Just because I enjoy video games doesn't make my time worth less than someone who enjoys watching football. Yeah it's infuriating that video games still have this stigma of being "childish" and that people who play them aren't serious and are just wasting time. It's far more active and involved than sitting there and passively receiving content while your brain goes on stand-by. I am employed as a programmer because of video games: Almost as soon as I started playing them I wanted to learn how to make them, and that is how I learned my skills. People respect my skills and pay me for them, but they don't respect the games that lead me down that path. Their loss, I suppose. And how support staff get treated. IT, administrative assistants, office managers, cleaning staff, receptionists, ... Edited per a reply: QA and testing, release management, ... Not gonna lie the first time I read it I assumed it was a typo and she was saying "It's just IT, you guys don't save lives" and I was like that would be an argument for them being at home though. One of the things I love about my current job is that attitude. I worked for a call center on a team that did stocking orders for home builders. Inventory for jobs that wouldn't be started for months and we had 2 call center locations. They would require people to come in in any kind of weather condition up to and including telling people to stay at their desks next to large plate glass windows during tornados and driving to work during ice storms that were labeled natural disasters and the city was actively telling people to stay home. The first time we had a hint of bad weather where I work now they sent out an email informing all non emergency essential staff to leave now if they could get home before the bad weather was supposed to hit in 2 hours. I went to ask my manager how our team fell and my VP walked by and said "There's not such thing as an audit emergency. Go home!" It’s like The IT Crowd irl. Oh wait, The IT Crowd *is* pretty much real life. And yet, she's the one calling IT seven times on 4th July. Fucking infuriating. Even people who DON’T have family or friends (which all IT people I know do) deserve to enjoy their time off to relax  "You guys don't have lives" Proceeds to spend all day on a holiday calling work to make sure people are there. Sounds like bad VP is the one that doesnt have a life. Some people just don't see IT as anything more than nerdy computer geek kids, hence her other comment about the video games. Doesn't matter that a lot of us are middle aged (or older!) with spouses and kids of our own. > That "you guys don't have lives" thing just blows my mind. It's bad enough on it's own; but it's 2022, the whole fucking world runs on "IT"! "I'd take issue with your stereotypical and pejorative statement, but chances are youd start crying, bitching and file a harassment complaint." One of the guys on my team got a call from a user who wanted a change made to an application. He asked me about it and I told him it was something we'd discussed and shot down previously and to tell her no. When he did, she seriously asked if she could change our minds by bribing us with Doritos and Mountain Dew. >Well 7 calls did come in, but from the same person. The Bad VP. She was calling to make sure we were manning the phones. Let's talk about who doesn't have a life. 7 calls on the 4th of July just to make sure the crew is at their desks. Get a freaking life. Said by the person who calls 8 times a day during holiday to check if other people are working...that person must have a very sad life. She kept calling you all day? Just route calls to her phone, talk about bringing negative value to the team. Its the boomer mindset. You use computers. So you must all be mouth breathing nerds like my grandson who wont talk to me anymore! That’s such an early 90s thing to say. Sorry VP, when it comes down to it middle management will be let go before the computers and phones are shut off. That’s how it goes. My friends in IT tell me they’re told they don’t do anything ever. If things are going well it’s “what do you guys even do?”. If there is one minute of downtime it’s “what do you guys even do?”. I work in IT and I can confirm that I don't have a life. I'm too busy with work and computer games.... and friends, and family, and scuba diving, national guard duty, competition shooting, board games, DIY projects, volunteering, my kitties and fishies, caring for my in-laws... I don't have time for a life. I can definitely work overtime, on holidays, nights and weekends. 5 figure tab from a STRIP CLUB??? Please tell me someone lost their job... Then there was this.... $33,540 over two nights at a strip club on the corporate card. https://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/matier-ross/article/Strip-club-sues-Oracle-over-employee-s-unpaid-tab-4834821.php What does the second H stand for in your username? - what the fuck - what the hell - shut h??? the fuck (up?) - oh my fucking god is what I would guess for the rest Well played, making it a bigger mess so they're more likely to just say fuck it. I guess I’m unfamiliar with big corporate stuff, but why do they want you guys working if no one else is? Honestly outside of the one VP the whole company came off as really chill, seems like a good place to work I didn't even realize how much weight that held until you mentioned it but you're totally right! An act of kindness given to a workers family is definitely going to resonate for a lot longer and have more impact than personal niceties. >I also strongly recommend you make this an annual thing. Maybe not the whole thing on the company tab, but let the company buy the meat and have a sides potluck Why not have the company pay for it? They kindly let OP know next year's party can cost $3,999.99 without getting it further approved! Not to mention, the OP has leverage to take everyone with him if he leaves. I also appreciate how much the CEO really emphasized work life balance. That's huge for me. Bad VP was an arse. You’re spot on regarding the aftermath. Or lack thereof . Technically not allowed. The story must still revolve around support of tech in some fashion, which this doesn't. Though, the story is still pretty awesome. Probably not necessary, Lightningcount is a regular at TFTS and there is a lot of crossover on the two subs. I'm betting most of us saw this post right away. Likewise, us South Africans will always have a braai (BBQ) no matter what. We won't riot over more important things though, like lost freedoms. I laughed out loud at this part, as I have done the same in my company My boss, if he had been the good VP in this situation would have told the bad VP something along the lines of: "If you can order the people under me to work on the holiday, I can order the people under you to do the same. What? I can't? OK then you can't either. I'm giving my people the day off until I hear otherwise from the CEO /CIO." I love my boss. >IT is often a lot like the janitor or facilities in a place. When things go well, you don't even notice they exist. When something goes bad, you expect them to drop everything and attend to your emergency. Exactly. "Everything works, what are we paying you people for?" versus "Nothing works, what are we paying you people for?" I manage a small department. Two single mothers, extremely dedicated and more than competent. I don’t question any time they need to take off and take care of their kids, because they still get the work done. They know I have their backs, and they wouldn’t take advantage of me. As far as janitors/maintenance staff, I have a nice conversation with the woman who mops the floors and cleans the restrooms every time I see her. She’s pleasant, we talk about our weekend, just small talk. I’m no better than her. We’re just doing our jobs, and, frankly, her job is more important than mine. No reason not to be decent. We’re all just people. I want to know a person’s story, and I want to figure out if there’s a way I can help. You are using logic to understand manglement decision making. Stop it. In reality she is a loud mouth who is used to complaining up the chain and getting what she wants. She is the definition of a VP in name only. Because a story isn’t always reality. My legend is much smaller. We just aren't allowed to make any changes on friday afternoons. :) Barbe-cue the malicious compliance. Former Arlington native, seconding Fork in the Road. Kincaid's is also amazing. I have fond memories of going to Fry's when it was a real store! Multiple people knew what she said to OP. I can imagine lying wasn't in her best interest. Probably didn't own up to it cause she wanted to she did it to try and save her job. I think when it’s confirmed she’s fired it should go over there. Yeah but now they all got paid for “working” the 4th- sitting around eating a crap ton of expensive good food, spending it with their families, free fireworks, drinks, etc. The only downside to some seemed to be the no alcohol. And even though they clocked out 8 it seems like most of them stayed. I would’ve been totally down for the whole thing. Get paid, free shit, no loss of time with family, plus that sweet sweet pleasure of a snotty controlling manager getting her ass handed to her. Also the CEO was out of office from at least 21 June to 6 July? A Wednesday? Lol Edit: also he is complaining about IT getting shafted “whenever they can” and then literally a few lines later talking about “we work from home 2/3 of the week and play video games at work often” ok dude lmao Depending on structure if they complain loud enough the might usually get their way. My last job the sales people were always complaining which drove structural changes in the company that did not end well. Was not fun being at HQ but being told the sales people are paying your paychecks as if we were not making it possible for them to do their job. This sounds like what someone makes up about what they would do if they were told to come in on the 4th but they never actually do. The CEO literally just got back from vacation today and supposedly had time to resolve everything in this story before 12 (when this was posted in DFW time). Not to mention the CEO yells at the Bad VP in office, which OP overhears, despite the Bad VP not coming in today or showing online. Also there is no way you could spend >$6k on a company card you just got and not get in trouble or have the card revoked immediately for misuse. I'm pretty sure 95% of this subreddit is fanfiction. For sure fan fiction. I'm in corporate and in tech, it would never be handled this way. Either full on lying or fluffing the story for karma  My favorite part is how they were all outraged to have to work on July 4th, but did not think twice about making what sounds like a ton of food service industry workers do the same. Seriously, this is just ridiculous. Dont forget the...*dun dun da DUN* **foot bridge** over a creek, that didnt have any fish or likewise in it, just over county line, to an empty field. It started great, and got even better. Then i remembered that real life isnt like a good story. :/ Yeah I dont believe any of this for a second ether. Doesn't want to dox himself, but then give enough him to dox himself. I don't mind people making up stupid stories, that's kind of fun. I'm just shocked at how many people DO believe them when they are obviously stupid stories. These people will believe anything and they get mad at anyone who points out that maybe this wacky 80s comedy scenario didn't happen, or that maybe that video of a duckling being friends with a puppy is staged. It's frankly terrifying because these people presumably make adult decisions and maybe even vote. Gotta treat this subreddit like nosleep or something like that. Try to enjoy the stories but don't for a second believe anything you read here is real. Especially this one. The whole post is a perfect example of throwing a ton of extraneous detail into a lie to make it seem more believable. Op say "DFW" which would mean Dallas Fort Worth so Texas. I'm also curious about the "both tater salad" because in Minnesota that would mean German (hot and a bit sour) and regular (cold with boiled eggs, maybe celery and a creamy sauce) No but they are fuckin epic. I am a BBQ connoisseur. The place I used is not in this list, but if you are looking for BBW places for food. Hard Eight 10:50 BBQ Lockharts BBQ Cattleback BBQ Kinkaids BBQ Pecan Lodge Hutchins BBQ The Slow Bone. Ive been to all of them. If I had to choose a favorite I would die of cholesterol issues. No but I gotta try that place now. IT at my last job tried to poach me for basically that skillset. I have the same skillset as the commenter above, plus I'm good under pressure. The more the shit hits the fan, the more calm and more logical I get. Please accept my resume. Though the commute might be a bit far from Philadelphia. I'm currently reading reddit at work, however I can shift to video games as the workload demands Considering that my experience has taught me that rebooting a computer will solve about 75% of an end user's problems, I'd say you're highly qualified. I also have this skill set, and can tell someone how to reset a router. I will need full time work from home. You need to add "babysitting adults who don't share this skillset." > how to turn the computer both off and on Look at Mr. FancyPants here...both on AND off. What, you think you're better than the rest of us!? Yes, but do you know how to set up an automated answering machine telling people to turn computer on and off? Lol I'm not even vaguely qualified to work IT though I have finally been around long enough that ours has learned they can skip the have you tried restarting etc... but I lost it at over 4k. I've worked for plenty of bad VPs and companies that lost the plot on time management. I got some serious vicarious pleasure out of this- well played and well told. Can you eat brisket and pizza? Same here, and I know my way around a buffet table. Videogames, bbq, pizza and fudge. I also have this skill set. I have lots of experience with the whole computer thing; you know, e-mails, sending e-mails, receiving e-mails, deleting e-mails... I could go on. I have the exact same skillset, honed by 25ish years of experience. I'm from Europe so I can easily cover your night shifts (since you've been moving towards WFH, it's ideal). I promise you, you can't go wrong with this! I'm night shift at my job because we're contractually obligated to man the phones 24/7. I spend most of my shifts watching tv/movies and reading books and I wfh it's fucking awesome. Aha! My skillset is one above! I know to not click on dubious links in e-mails. Do you know how to reinstall Adobe Reader as well? I'll even be the dedicated Healer / Tank in the video game. OP sounds like a pretty fun boss to work for! Ah you almost had us there.... if you were really skilled, you would turn the computer ON before you can turn it off..... Nice try qole720 I also play video games, sometimes at home, mainly at work I have removed my content in protest of Reddit's API changes that will kill 3rd party apps I have these skills too! I also can unjam a copy machine. Lucky you. Just today I was admonished because "I spend too much time looking at my phone" (mind you, I had about an hour of effective work most of which was installing various programs on an user's device) Right? I'm in a field that requires a master's degree, continuing education, and maintenance of specific licensure... and the wealthiest of us still get paid a fraction of a fairly paid IT person with no degree whatsoever. I'm both angry and proud reading this post. Me three! Spent half a decade doing phone support on exactly that skillset. Fortunately, with an ESPP when that particular stock was dirt cheap. That's what I do now at work (minus the gaming) I don't even care about relocating to Texas. Overqualified. Oof. I can do that with the bonus of answering lore questions about Dark Souls and Bloodborne I have good news for you. I’m giving Quole720 the heartiest recommendation for this job. Winston-“Print. Print preview. Save. Save as.” >...and I've never worked for a company that would treat their people so nicely. That's one of the reasons that I love the company I'm with right now. From the top down, they *insist* on a work-life balance... and *mean* it. Factor in Canada Day and we could make it a four-day feast & fireworks fest.  "Mandatory fun" never is. And nobody gets hyped about an industry speaker unless it's like, someone literally everyone has heard of, heard of when they were kids, and nobody can afford. Whereas a single-department $6k catered feast? There is a *reason* that hospitality rites throughout the world have included feeding the traveler; we *instinctually bond* when breaking bread with someone. It can't really be forced if nobody *wants* to be there - unless the forcer and the feaster are not the same party, I suppose - but, and hear me out here... "Okay y'all listen up - we're thinkin' of doin' a Fourth of July thing again. Gonna have u/TheLightningCount1 do the caterin' since what he did was such a smash-up hit last time. Y'all can bring your family and some friends, so long as everyone understands the bash will be *dry;* drier than an arroyo in August. And it should go without saying, but there will be no strippers neither. Other'n that, anything goes - vidjagames, feastin', foosball, nerf-ball, whatever, so long as no fireworks get set off on company property. And the best part is, we're gonna keep the phones live, so as long as there's *somebody* can keep a phone on them and switch back to work mode in the event we do get a call, *all y'all get holiday overtime pay* to boot. Sound good? We're takin' sign-ups to 'work' that day now, so'in we know how much to cater for." That frankly sounds like it would be both cheaper and more effective than a stupid-ass retreat, and loads more effective than a speaker even if the catering does cost more than the speaker alone. It probably helps that the CEO (who was ALSO on vacation during the 4th) took their side. I'm sure employees are probably very appreciative when upper management makes sure to look out for them > A speaker alone could easily be $5K. > > A retreat could cost $20-50K. SO MANY mandatory corporate events I had to attend that sucked...and we all knew it cost a pretty penny. It was not lost on us while we were a captive audience to our leadership team waxing poetic about the company's virtues that they were spending money that could have been used to give us a bonus or a raise. At least they gave us two drink tickets? Pathetic. *This* event is the actual team-building that companies should spend money on, but never will because it doesn't give them a chance to talk at us. So you're saying OP should moonlight as an event planner or venue operations manager? We ended up doing something like that for a Christmas party once. Our little department that was based in an industrial are (cause we needed a workshop on site) had been merged into a much much larger department based in the city. Like 10 people vs 300. The new big boss had basically turned up at one point and said, don’t worry, the adults have arrived now, go back to playing with your toys. Real class act. Anyway, so Christmas rolls around and the company have organised this big pretentious sit-down dinner at a sailing club. None of our guys want to go. We talked about it internally and I suggested that there’s nothing stopping us just doing our own thing. So we all individually RSVPd that we couldn’t go for whatever reason. When the big day came along we had a blast, played Supa golf, went to a few breweries and stopped at one for lunch, then went to the city and had chicken wings for dinner and went on a massive pub crawl. All in all it was an epic day and night. A company wide email came out a couple of a days later explaining that people are not permitted to organise events on work time and that it’s important to maintain company spirit. In reality our little team blew off a bunch of steam and went back to working our asses off doing things that no other department could hope to achieve. For real. I'm happy things worked out like they did, but if the "good" vp and ceo weren't on board, all that would happen is op getting fired if not also good vp and a ton of the it department > This is how to be a manager. Have your team’s back. My general philosophy is a good team is like teeth: if you don’t take care of them, they’ll make a mess of things on their way out. > "no you cannot**,** direct anyone who bugs you to me". Comma added for emphasis. ;-) Debugging Assembly Language code all day is enough to send anyone into a spiraling depression. I think the last time I coded in Assembly was the early 90s where I was working with embedded systems trying to convert them all from Assembly to Java. Damn I hate Java and dealing with reverse engineering Assembly was not a fun time. Hope you are doing better. You have a unicorn manager. Good for you. While I agree with you, in most cases like this the 'bad VP' and 'CEO' are the same person and have the same attitude. In most situations like this, the 6k would have come out of OP's salary and the yelling would have been directed at them, not 'bad vp.' So it's leadership + luck, not just leadership. Nothing against OP, it's just in most cases they would have been forced to quit or have been fired for this. Yup, my boss when I was help desk before I went to the dev team constantly let me know how much he appreciated the work I put in, and how responsive I was and how I got my tickets in. It made a huge difference from the person before, who basically said "We can't justify having you work from home, so if you don't handle more tickets, we'll have to let you go." When my husband started off in the IT industry, one of his first jobs was with a small company run by 2 brothers. One day, one of his bosses told him that his aura was off and take the rest of the day off. We had only been on the west coast for a few months and found this hilarious. (Grew up in the midwest.) To this day if one of us looks tired, etc, we will tell the other that their aura is off. It's especially funny coming from my husband, a born-again moderate who even wears mandals now. It wasn't until recently that I realized how rare it is to have a boss that cares about work/life balance. Even if it came across as new age-y, it still means a lot that this guy was aware and cared. I'm glad it all worked out well for OP and his peeps. My manager at my old company had my back like this, and I'm STILL loyal to him two jobs later. He called me up to do some light contract work for a new business he's starting up, I'd have done it for free if he'd asked me to (but he never would and wouldn't accept if I'd offered). Have your team's back, and they'll follow you through hell. Totally agree. Some managers just make life super complicated and forget even the most basic rules. DON'T BE A DICK! People don't quit jobs. They quit managers. I've seen people (myself included) put up with terrible jobs for shit pay because the managers were cool and didn't beat them over the head for small mistakes. A manager that proactively pushed me to better my physical and mental health? I would follow them to Mordor for minimum wage. I once got told, to go take a break... and by that it was ment. Go take a walk get some food, come back in a hour , After a computer drove me a little crazy This is beautiful and I wish I had an award to give you. Shawshank is suuuuch a good movie Love this, well done! I got to "and that's how it came to pass" and the Morgan Freeman voice took over my reading voice. Had something like that happen when I was a lowly field tech. I was along for the meal, largely as the DD. Also, because I was the only one adequately sober at the end of the ebbing, the bill went on my company card. I could hear the whispering winds of shit all over this thing, so kept all the arranging emails etc… the VP involved didn’t last another month after that. Yeah with my company you have to submit the names of the people present at the dinner specifically so the senior person present will pay for it and expense it. There was a rash of incidents where senior managers were approving expenses that shouldn't have been approved by using that type of loop hole. > A month later, there was a policy update that the most senior person present had to submit all expenses to their boss, and no split checks were allowed. "Hey VP, can you step off the property for a minute and check your email?" I worked at a Fortune 500 company and when we sat down at a business meal the highest level employees all declared their start dates automatically. I love the smell of fresh bread. If you are from Seattle, like me, ANYWHERE in DFW is good BBQ. Pecan Lodge is super good. https://www.texasmonthly.com/interactive/top-50-bbq-2021/ Hutchins and Cattleack are the best but the latter is only open around lunch on Thursdays and Fridays. Pecan Lodge is good but I haven’t been there in years. Fort Worth has a couple of places that made Texas Monthly’s best bbq top ten but I haven’t been to them yet. Hurtado! Ehh, the Texans keep trying to serve me this meat sauce they insist is chili. Kinda loses the whole operation a good bit of prestige.  Terry blacks? Terry Black's is 100% the best. I'm a manager of a team that works 24/7/365. Because they're union, I can't work their shifts for them. But they're compensated VERY well. If they work on a holiday, they're paid extra. If they work on Christmas, its even more. And if they work overtime on a holiday, cha-ching!! I never have a shortage of people signing up for shifts any time, including holidays. I make sure I follow the overtime guidelines to the letter of the contract and everyone is happy. I thank my employees constantly because they really do step up to the plate and I've never had to force overtime like I've had to do in other departments. > Our company offers double time for them but I’d ask the people who wants it and they’d volunteer 90% of the time. When I worked in operations, we had to have 24/7 coverage - most holidays I had no problem jumping on for the extra scratch. This is the difference between being a leader vs a boss. I’m going to work the hardest to ensure my direct reports feel informed, valued, heard, and understood. Sometimes this involves giving them tough info, but at least they know I’ve done everything I can to have their back. He sounds like a clone of Ebenezer Scrooge. Same, left IT for analyst work. I make more, get more time off, and can actually attend company functions! Last company would always schedule company outings etc diring working hours where eveyone except IT could leave. They kept saying they would schedule things later but never followed through. If you get treated like this or see another group get treated like this, start filling out applications. Companies that have these types of shit tier people tend to fall pretty hard if allowed to stay around. If you work in the video game industry: QA At my company, the QA department has almost as much authority as the sales team. They get treated exceptionally well. But my company also treats all the employees super well, as long as you’re an office worker lol. Good testers are worth their weight in gold! Yup, that show is pretty true to life about an IT department. We get forgotten and dumped on constantly. But when fuck ups happen everyone looks at us. It's starting to turn around at least in my company. There is some praise and recognition especially if you talk to random users or managers we usually get a nice thank you from them. Pro tip to anyone who isn't in IT... If you send a thank you email saying how well we did or were able to help you, that goes a long way (even if it's a brief email). We get SO MANY negative emails and feedback because obviously people are already pissed off when we get there and usually those get taken with a grain of salt. But positive ones are few and few between and are noticed. Edit: also yes, CC the IT persons boss on the email so they see it. At my job I just quit we literally replayed the episode where they go around thanking every department except IT for the website. The hospital sent a company wide email thanking all the departments for handling the pandemic, even the ones that were WFH (IT wasn't). Then they sent a follow up email because they forgot to mention Dietary. No mention of IT anywhere. Even though we busted out asses trying to get equipment and get everyone home and open new offices with a skeleton crew "You guys don't have lives" "Because you're the one strangling it to death" To fortify her own feeling of control, not even because IT's services were needed. Management like that makes me consider homicide. Are you a fucking helicopter parent? Sit back, shut up, leave me alone and let me do the job you hired me for. I usually hear this version. Everything’s working fine, what are we paying you for? Nothing's working, what are we paying you for‽ Also who cares if they're just nerdy computer geek kids who don't have a family (or even friends)? They deserve time off too. Everyone does. No matter what. What I learned in my life is that people who claim others have no lives are often times extremely boring. It was probably an exec; strippers and blow (either kind) is a normal part of their perks. One past employer’s CEO had language in his contract requiring the company to put his mistress (“personal assistant”) on the actual payroll, plus buy (not rent) them a condo in every city the company had offices, plus unlimited travel for both of them. I think the phrase "rules for thee and not for me" came into play It's shockingly easy to do. Private rooms etc. My friend drops $5k when he goes which is crazy to me but it's not my money. Just five figures at a strip club? Those are (https://www.nbcnews.com/id/wbna9750948). **W**hat **T**he **F**uck **W**hat **T**he **H**ell **S**hit **H**it **T**he **F**an **O**h **M**y **F**ucking **G**od And now you have a history of my almost 60 years on this planet I think it's 'shit hit the fan' In my experience most of the tume it's a power trip The VP helping to clean after really stuck out for me. I mean, even viewing this as cynically as possible. The CEO at a minimum wanted to avoid the legal clusterfuck of a VP clearly fomenting a hostile work environment. That shit will ruin a company. Especially given OP had extensively documented things and the VP openly admitted to it, suggesting they did not consider what they were doing wrong. Like even a shitty CEO would likely see the writing on the wall. But it seems OPs company is actually decent, which is great. It does. It just happened that they were forced to work(and only them) on a day that everyone in the office knew there would not be any call/trouble tickets/emails for assistance. I just hope they transferred the bill to bad VP's budget. Have you ever try to stop an Argentinian having Argentinian BBQ ? (aka: Asado) we will burn the house down and use the ashes to cook the meat She has no life herself if she's taking time out of her day to check up on you Manglement! Take a poor man’s gold 🏅🏅🏅 and tell me where to subscribe to your newsletter. Props to you for using manglement. I first heard that term from my grad school professor. He said each of us would eventually learn what it truly meant firsthand. We just had to give it time. He was not wrong. Why didn’t your VP who was there just say no? I’m surprised there was no alcohol being available on the other side of the foot bridge since it wasn’t company property. I spent the 4th at a lake on a boat- a party in the office would have been a serious downgrade regardless of how nice it was. And OP has a loooong history of posting to tales from tech support, where they are always the hero, and have these long sagas about their work. Where it somehow is almost never their fault. The CEO being on vacation and unreachable for 3 weeks is unrealistic as it is Tbh it depends on the company size. Last happy hour we did where I work, we casually blew $4k+ on drinks + food and it barely even registered on the radar. Manager submits, director approves. I see it as a blip on the monthly P&L. Also what bad VP did was straight up corporate misconduct.... over another team entirely. Seems like good VP was looking for the chips to fall (this could have been the straw that broke the camel's back). Firing a VP is expensive, so you need a great reason to do it. CEO might have been fed up with the VP, and this was the out. Here's the real story. Two weeks ago someone suggested having IT come in on the 4th, this request made it out of the rumor mill, but because literally no other staff are working on a national holiday, that idea was quickly shot down and everyone had the day off. OP, a low level IT maintenance tech, spent two weeks fantasizing about what he would do if he were in charge of IT, and posted this garbage. This appears to be a hobby of his, if you check his post history he has a number of equally unbelievable stories posted to various subs. My favourite part is that the ceo was outraged, but not because the dude who only *just* received a company card threw the most expensive party in the companies history just for one department and a bunch of strangers Lol ya, as someone in food service, I always work 4ths. This just sounds really entitled Yeah I can't tell the difference between being forced to be present at work despite there being no work to do, and actually having work to do either, so I agree with you!! Also we’re supposed to be cool with them polluting a creek full of fireworks because it doesn’t have fish in it. I'd believe OP works in "IT" in the sense they maybe work at an Apple support or similar call center, and they, being the bottom of the corp ladder, had to work on the 4th. But yeah, the rest reads like complete bullshit. There's way to many odd embellished details that don't matter in the slightest, and are the types of details liars add to a story because they think it makes it more believable. Like, why the hell do we need to know they moved the IT department from the main corp building to some random smaller building all by themselves just outside county lines? If this was true you'd probably just say "our office is just outside of county lines", but really why even mention that? Because, you know it's a lie and are overcompensating in case someone else starts to question your story. I'd assume wherever OP lives(I take it DFW area from the BBQ mention), its not legal to light off mortars in shit in city limits so was worried someone would question the bit about lighting off fireworks, which of course you have to have in an awesome petty revenge story about having to work on the 4th. Then in case anybody questioned it you can back your lies up by being able to explain you were easily able to walk off both the company property and somewhere where the city cops and your company have no say. Then going into deep detail about exactly what kind of BBQ and Pizza they got? And they adding in all your workers friends and family came too, and you fed all of them, and then the CEO was totally cool with the fact you threw a massive party on a corp card that was 3 times more than reasonable. But it's cool and OP has their ass covered because both VP and bad VP told them to "go wild". I feel like OP was just salty they have a shit job and had to work on the 4th when it was super slow and was bored so spent all day storyboarding a made up revenge story to farm karma. They also were probably hungry and craving BBQ from their fav spot so decided to throw that in as well. Although I might also believe that they did get catering to make up for having to work on the 4th, and maybe they got BBQ and/or pizza. “Here’s this extremely specific scenario I was a part of in excruciating detail except the name of a restaurant will dox me”. I don’t know what’s in them, but “yellow” and “white” are the names I’ve always used. Both have hard-core advocates here, so you’re a horrible host if you don’t provide both. Just like you need both sweet and spicy BBQ sauces. This is a great list So they wanted someone to carry them in multiplayer games? Iiiiiinteresting... in addition to /u/qole720 's skills, I can also do basic computer troubleshooting, put together a computer, tear down a computer, do html, and not make people feel stupid about an easy fix? If you also knew how to unplug the power supply for 30 seconds and plug back in along with turning on and off they may have made you a department head. Lmao the company outsourcing me tried to recruit me...they didn't realize it was my job that they called me about. >Though the commute might be a bit far from Philadelphia. Why? Do the houses in Philly have the bedroom farther away from the front room than in other places? :D I, too, am good under pressure. And have a similar skillset with the knowing how to turn the computer both on \*and\* off. And how to check if it's actually connected to power. I've even ...*swapped out a hard drive.* Eh, no problem! He’s got WFH back in place! Work from home. You're good! Reading Reddit while on the job is a new skillset of mine. I don't believe this disqualifies me from the position. 'The button next to the monitor screen doesnt actually turn the computer itself off, look at the box on the floor' &#x200B; Im over qualified Lol. I spent the last 15 years working in a jail. I'm a professional at babysitting adults. I also specialize in the sentence "No." I can do all of the above plus this (telecom programmer and former helpdesk mgr). Pick me! “My computer isn’t working.” “Have you tried turning it off and on again?” “Oh no, I haven’t. I’ll do that then, thanks.” “Cheers mate” I can. I can also eat bratwurst and have great appreciation for an alcohol free event. Shows what you know. The computer has to be on before you can know theres a problem. Unless of course that is the problem. Then that's user error, fixable only by a quick whack to the back of the head ;) I work retail and my store manager literally looks so upset when he asks when my next day off is and I tell him we talked about this in my interview, I fully expect to work 6 days a week and only get every other weekend off when I have my son. This company is amazing. Hell my manager called me after leaving day before a blizzard and PLEADED with me to not try and come in the next day knowing full well I would try cuz I am used to that kinda shit being expected. It's been almost a year and I'm still trying to wrap my head around this place lol IT, government job. For about 20+ years and half-a-dozen of CIOs we have a very unofficial rule.. Nobody deserves to have to work on their birthday. This is completely 'of the books', as far as the rest of the company knows, you worked that day. Some of the co-workers, specifically some of the forever married ones, simply chose not to communicate the SO about it.. a full day of 'me' time, time to go to the movies, walk around or any other relax activity (yes, that one too). In a previous job, I had to "justify" to my CIO why I needed to be off for my daughter's senior awards day. He honestly asked me, "Why don't you just let your wife go?" It was at that job I coined the phrase, "You can't tell me I can't take off, you can only tell me that I can't come back." Current employer is very serious about making sure folks have lots of "down time" and as a manager, I've never been asked to rein in someone's PTO requests, though I've been asked a couple times to check on someone who didn't seem to be taking *enough* time off. It’s a very contradictory message isn’t it? One of the really big takeaway lessons about self-respect is “don’t compare yourself to others.” Then those retreats are all like: look at this shiny success story. Bet you wish you were like that huh? We occasionally have people (some employees, sometimes guests) give brown bag lunch talks on stuff that are optional but on various topics. I’ve given one where I talked about a school project I did. They give everyone DoorDash credit to enjoy some grub and people get to ask questions and BS. Learned a bunch of stuff and ate a bunch of tasty grub. Our boss arranged a workload management/resilience *training* session where we spent the best part of a day being told "if you don't like it, leave" as a strategy to manage/cope with our punitive workload. The office is now up to a 70% staff turnover p/a now. Funny that.  At an old job, our boss sometimes made arrangements. Like he rented a bus (drove that thing himself) and paid for the whole company to go waterskiing (we were around 80 people). Sounds good on paper, but if you despise almost anyone at your company and don't know most of the rest, that whole trip isn't much fun. Definitely didn't change my attitude towards the company and I'm glad I don't work there anymore. I saw one corporate speaker that really stuck with me - it was at an awards ceremony for a course I had done though so not actually put on by my company. She was an amazing woman, a super-marathoner but the part I found really inspiring was her talking about the rehab she forced/encouraged her mum to do after a stroke- she had an almost full recovery but it was super intense. It was one of those things that made me realise that you could put in almost super human effort and sometimes have miraculous results- but there is a cost. It maybe had the opposite effect than intended, I really was inspired by her but at the same time realised I needed to be realistic about what effort I was willing to put into my career, life, fitness etc and set goals accordingly Depends, if the speaker (or whatever bs corp activity) is only a half day event of at least 2 full day in a nice hotel resort. Then it’s at minimum palatable. And if it’s a really nice place, then it could actually be a decent retreat. This is how my place handles christmas and new years. "Aight we need you three to cover for the christians on the team since they always cover us on our holidays. You'll be working 12-18 hours... and by 'working' I mean have your work laptop open and make sure the entire business doesn't fail while you watch movies all day"  My questions is how does the outside dept's VP have the authority over his own VP and CEO to do this? Not emphasis; the meaning is vastly different without a comma. I was confused until I saw your suggested edit. Without the comma it means to not direct annoying people to them. Haha! Yeah assembly is mind-bending. I described it to my wife as trying to follow instructions for a house in ancient sumerian. That particular day I was debugging an issue in our programs secondary core start-up sequence and that only reproduced in a release build ( so it was a mix of hand rolled assembly and compiled C but I had no symbols for anything). I *think* I know what is happening now but I am waiting for some feedback from a colleague and a secondary fix to our debug scripts. Is it not just faster to rewrite for the purpose than it is to try and directly translate the assembly to java? Ps: fuck assembly Yeah, if you stare at it for too long, nothing registers anymore. Yeah I realize I am lucky. But I looked for this when I picked my company and targeted moving into this particular department because of the management. It also helps that the department head expects this from his management team, and the CEO/President doesn't get in the way because our department pulls in big money. I think OP knew both his manager and the CEO would not blame him for this. If he'd had doubts, I think he would have been a little less scorched earth about the whole thing. So, not leadership+luck, but leadership+being able to read a room It wad a marbelous ebbing Just leave your boss off the list? That doesn't solve the problem. The next highest level guy would then take the full check to their boss. The key portion of this rule is: > no split checks were allowed. Hutchins bbq if you’re in the Dallas area is my favorite, won a few awards too Edit: Pro tip, if they have a big sold out sign on the front that lights up when they are sold out, it’s usually pretty good in my experience. Some places run out of brisket by noon Well, this is from "the before" (pre-covid), but visit Portland? (https://www.texasmonthly.com/bbq/new-portland-barbecue/) Woodshop is my pick in seattle. brileys bbq in lake forest park, youll thank me later The owner of Peacan Lodge eats at Hutchins in McKinney. :) Heim's in Fort Worth is very good. Hutchins has gone downhill and up in price. There are quite a few up and coming places that are nudging it out of the top 10 Yes. That’s true! They do love when they hit OT pay for the week and then get a holiday on top added to it. Great point. Sounds like you’re a great manager too. Just sucks we are far outnumbered by the horrible ones. Unfortunately the companies love what we call “bad managers” bc usually they bully people into shit that’s either illegal or just wrong and usually the company either saves or makes more money because of it. Or they’re just incapable Exactly. Most don’t care but depends if they have a family with kids or single. Also if they have plans with their extended family and such. But if a worker is free, they’ll almost always take it. That’s a nice pay bump for one shift lol. Doesn’t almost every company have a tier of employee that’s treated that way? Certainly the case in most of the entertainment industry. Have worked in QA outside the video game industry, and it was the same shit treatment. "Pro tip to anyone who isn't in IT... If you send a thank you email saying how well we did or were able to help you, that goes a long way (even if it's a brief email). We get SO MANY negative emails and feedback because obviously people are already pissed off when we get there and usually those get taken with a grain of salt. But positive ones are few and few between and are noticed." Don't forget to copy our boss, too. That negative email filter also usually gets applied to what they hear. It's the curse of IT... >Everything's , what the fuck do we pay you for again?! At my work we have it pretty good. There is only the 2 of us supporting about 150 people. We are a satilite office. Well this satilite office is basically one big department (with smaller teams inside) so when ever they have functions we get invited. Infact we have been invited to one teams lunch on Wednesday for I quote "You guys don't seem to get a lot of thanks, so you can join us for a corporate paid lunch" And the Wednesday after that we have been invited to a venue, we knock off 2 hours early and head to the venue we get a free dinner, probably paying for our own drinks, but hey, free dinner The teams here a have a "bring something to share" morning teas, IT is always invited. And sometimes the Building has a corporate paid morning tea, which we are also invited to. There is a reason why I put on 5-10kg in the first year I got this job. I have to decline chocolate/lollies/cake/some unhealthy food item atleast once a month. I think the implication is that if she can call in to check up on the IT dept 7 times on the 4th of July that it's actually ***her*** who doesn't have a life You're paying us to keep everything in the first state as much as possible. "There's no fires, what are we paying you for?" "Everything's on fire, what are we paying you for‽" Jesus, with that many perks, that dude most have been making millon dollar deals for the company  Running up a 5 figure tab isn't surprising. Trying to expense that tab on your company card is. Lost track of all the letters, thanks >The VP helping to clean after really stuck out for me. Heck, even showing up in the first place is huge. Yeah you don't need anything other then pure greed to treat your employees with a minimum level of respect. It requires a special level of stupidity to torpedo your work environment over something that doesnt matter. Come not between a man and his BBQ, lest you be destroyed.... 🤣 Oh man, don't you know? This is u/TheLightningCount1, check out his post history, it's got some epic tales. It's worthwhile reading all the IT related posts. I was waiting for the part where they walk back and forth drinking on only one side of the bridge. Welcome to the majority of white collar jobs, they make 10x more than the average service industry worker, get every single holiday known to man off and have been able to work from home in their pjs the last year and a half yet still it's not good enough. Rocket League, I'm your man. Any FPS and I'm a potato. So, we’re looking for a medic… Begun are the days where we now list our K/D ratio on our resumes. I can do those things too, I was just trying to keep it short by listing the hard stuff. I can’t do any of these things, but I am a great listener. If you need to vent about bad management, I’m your guy. Not making people feel stupid about an easy fix should be enough to automatically disqualify you Is the power cord plugged in as well? Again, to the box and not the monitors, but check those too. A-fucking-men. I did 13.5 inside the jail (large urban area) and 6.5 on the street. As a Surgeon I also have these powers Let's get to the fireworks then. "How I learned to become successful by quitting my dream job and selling myself out as a motivational speaker, and you can too!" That’s a tricky job for a comedian. Great roasts requires more than just superficial knowledge of the person. This *is* the way. Another way I've seen it done is "family people get Christmas off and work New Years, and the singles work Christmas and get New Years." Honestly I kind of wonder if the ‘good’ VP had the ability to overrule the ‘bad’ VP, but decided to handle it by letting the ‘bad’ VP crash and burn rather than spend political capital on overruling them. Might have just been sick of their shit and figured it was time for a harsh lesson. Bad vp could be the vp of an internal customer department so could make demands on IT. If that was the case there would be politics about deciding what to do and it sounds like they were in a stalemate until CEO got back so rather than fight it and it potentially go badly for them they opted for malicious compliance.   Yes, but how often do you encounter a well-documented assembly program where the business clearly understands what it does and how critical it is? You gotta translate it just to figure out what the fuck is going on in the first place. Haha… freudian autocowreck? Either way I’m leaving it. Four different employees say the same thing to four different VPs who each pay with four separate checks. Gotta love Hutchins. Especially those Texas Twinkies! Came to comment this!! Tried it after Hard8, haven’t bothered to try others…. hutchins was my first thought as well! Hutchins is so good There is room in the world for both. Especially considering they are almost an hour's drive away from each other. Got to spread that BBQ love! Hutchins is the truth Cattleack and Meat U Anywhere. Hutchins is burning out and a little overrated. No. Fortunately my company has a pretty strong work/life balance culture. If anyone from management ever said something like "IT have no lives", there's a very simple online form for us to fill out to report it. It's actually a good idea more generally. We tend to think of justice exclusively as punishing those who acted badly, when it's arguably more important (and certainly more fun) to praise and reward those who have done well. This doesn't have to be over the top - a simple acknowledgement that something was done well, noticed and appreciated goes farther than you think. Definitely. I get that. just riffin' that she's a purveyor of death of sorts -- her social life is dead, and she must bring everyone else down with her. He nearly drove the place into the ground. It cost tens of millions to get rid of him due to the standard “golden parachute”.  I wouldn't buy someone multiple homes for some million dollar deals. they're legal in nevada tbf Oh yeah, that comment was two hours ago. I’ve read everything he’s ever written now 😂 What’s your rank lol? This is funny because I'm the potato in rocket league. I play Monster Hunter well tho.  In battlefield? I'm your guy, I'll die a thousand deaths to get those soldiers back on their feet I have three unusuals and only drop 30% of ubers Oh yeah? *cracks knuckles* I can download Office 365. Back when I worked in support, I was usually quite good at this. With exceptions though. Exceptions like this one: Me (doing desk site support and teaching a usually quite competent user how a specific software works): "Ok, now press space" User grabs mouse and starts searching the screen. Me looks at user, then at screen then back at user. I am utterly failing at hiding my disbelief. User turns to me, probably to ask where to click. User sees my face. Understanding dawns, her face changes colour. User tries to cover her face in embarrassment. We both laughed about it after she recovered. I just do the easy fix for them. If they feel stupid about it, that's all on them. I do usually say something like, "I had this same problem last week and it took me two hours to realize I forgot to turn on the mouse."  > I did 13.5 inside the jail What were you in for? "I spend so much time travelling that I no longer know where home is" Tldr; just close unless emergency service/gas station. Alternatively - just have a sign up sheet of X number of people, and disclose its double or triple pay, and if no one signs up close for the whopping handful of holidays a year where *most* people spend with family / friends. Unless it's an emergency service (dispatch/ PD, EMS, FD/hospital) / gas station, there's really no need to be open. And those I mentioned could do shorter shifts to accommodate folks. 🤷‍♀️ Being single =/= not having family, afterall and it drove me bananas when people assumed (before I had one) that because I didn't have kids or a spouse, I must not need the holidays off because "no family to spend holidays with"... it may "just" have been my grandpa and mom, and then just my mom... but dammit who knows when will be the last one, ya know? If I knew my last Xmas with my grandpa was gonna be the last, I'd have worked from open to close everyday until Xmas eve, and made it super extra special for my family. 😩 Those who don't have family/friends in the area, and can't afford to travel can still do video chats to their family to "spend the holidays with them". I would assume he could, otherwise there's be no point in op trying to contact him. Ah, the Oxford comma. Nice My mgr pats himself on the back because he "never expects anyone to work in the office after an all night cutover." We still have to work (yes on no sleep), we're just given the luxury of doing it from home. Smh. I wouldnt know, but that makes sense. Esentially you dont trust management to understand what the code does functionally so you cant just rewrite for functiinality without double checking what the functionality is? What you described is the situation that caused the rule to be changed in the first place. You'd get fired immediately. Do you think corporate isn't going to notice 4 charges from the same restaurant on the same night when they already had before? I recommend hard 8 to people I don’t like. It’s great bbq if your not from Texas. We have better options. When it isn't busy being burned down, that is... Meat U Anywhere is right around the corner from my work and is the only thing that makes returning to work in-office okay. Hadn't heard of Meat U, but Cattleack for sure. Hutchins is good, but best for just being open every day and for dinner. Ah, what a beautiful thing it is to be a CEO. Get paid to fuck things up, and fuck people That's where you went wrong, you're making deals for the employer, and not screwing everyone you meet to get your jollies and maybe turn a buck for yourself. Grand potato Trash III Wonder if they're hiring Hunting Horn mains... K/D? -5/1. 24/7 metro up in here. I once beat minesweeper and I have talked to a girl that I’m not related to *pops neck* -I- can download Internet Explorer…still. I know how to make clippy go away *permanently* Damn, I fold. I can program my microwave clock to the correct time! Does that count? I've also rigged old TV sets to VCRs so I could play my Playstation on a TVs that didn't have aux channels. I have literally had this call. My favorite though was a farmer (futures, man!) calling in saying he added gas to our generator and started it (major ice storm took out power) but his internet was still down. Of course it is. You restored power to the equipment inside but you didn’t have access to flip the power switch for said equipment back on…. I already told you that I am not a computer person! If the lights aren't getting electricity, what makes you think the computer is going to get electricity? This happened to me when I was working hell desk for a web hosting company and he was losing "thousands of dollars" because his website wasn't up. I do not miss those days! The food? Lol, hospital food is a step up. I sentenced myself to two decades of showing up for work for 40+ hours a week to earn a pension which doesn't come with a cost of living adjustment. I mean, I agree with you, but some manglement will insist on being open even if they're gonna get fuck-all business. Asking for volunteers at triple pay is the best way, but... If you *are* going to force the place to stay open, and you don't have enough workers who *do not* celebrate the holiday in question to stay open, then you make sure that no one group gets shafted; in the manner I suggested is probably the best way. I'm sorry about your grandpa. If I'd known last Christmas was gonna be my last with my uncle, well... You don't know. You usually can't. My condolences. Worth noting that, while I prefer it, the Oxford comma isn't a fix-all. If you use the singular, then it still makes it look like JFK was a stripper: >it was really fun playing with the stripper, jfk, and stalin. The real solution is to write a better sentence. In this case, reordering works no matter what: >it was really fun playing with jfk, stalin, and the stripper(s). I had an old school boss, "No matter how bad you're hurting, you're at your desk at 9am." We were out with clients, boss and I are going drink for drink. At the end of the night, rest of my colleagues and the clients are gone, just the boss and I in the bar. He goes, "One more?" "I'm game." The next morning, I'm at my desk 8:40am as usual. He shows up around 10 and stops at my desk, "That last drink was completely unnecessary," then keeps going. The "9am rule" was relaxed after that. :) My initial comment was just a joke, this whole thing is getting a bit ridiculous >Do you think corporate isn't going to notice 4 charges from the same restaurant on the same night when they already had before? At my job... yes. Expense reports are randomly checked by staff in India. Hard 8 is awful. It's the tourist trap BBQ that do not know better go to.  This is another argument against exorbitant CEO salaries. I can run a company into the ground as well as any of them. And when sacked for their blatant incompetence, they simply go onto the next gig at another large company with all the same perks, and all the same failings. It really is a sad revolving world in which they live. Tbf, making million-dollar deals doesn’t say much without knowing what the typical contract looks like. For example, every project that a friend of mine works on is a million-dollar deal, but that doesn’t mean much when the project costs millions to deliver. There actually was an April fools one year. All the ranks were vegetables. It was grand eggplant. Lol. Lmao, this shit made me laugh out loud shittin by myself Edit: changed sitting to shittin Support is always welcome On a bad day. I'm happy to be -100/1. (In reality, I strive for 1:1, but it's a struggle... but I do not mind in the slightest). >I have talked to a girl that I’m not related to You're shooting for a senior position here. I -am- a girl, a meta data analyst who can write SQL. I also am a gamer who specializes in MUDs and helped convert the programming of our MUD from ROM to LUA. I can talk on the phone to people I don’t know, and as a bonus, I can bake a pie from scratch and emplace/detonate C4 and TNT. 😁 But did she talk back? I can imitate the old dial up sound while an update is happening, just to be annoying. My husband’s got you beat! In the nineties he proudly said he downloaded the INTERNET and burned it onto a CD. (Still makes me chuckle, I’m the IT guy) There's a point that people call "know just enough to be dangerous"... Where one knows a lot about their craft but doesn't yet have enough common sense with that knowledge. You have peaked that. I can login to AOL I can close task manager with task manager also I can delete system32 ...that was *you*??? holy shit I completely forgot about clippy until now Depending on their age, they may or may not think the computer gets power like a landline phone. Because it's fucking magic, while the lights are just lights. Because computers come with Power Supplies. As the name states… it supplies the computer with Power and since I always have it plugged it it must be fully charged! Makes you wonder why some people would turn to crime, doesn't it? 🤣 I don't think I'd be able to run a company to the ground that well. Not sure how well I can resist the urge to actually do something to try and stop the ship from sinking. It takes a special kind of person to knowingly sink things and still act like you're god's gift to the world. I'd argue that I could do it even better than them.1234 This is why Stock Options are common parts of CEO'S pay. That way if the company is doing well, so will the CEO. Incentives. C L A S S I C I hope they do best mode (3 wheel) again :( That is the way of the medic My favorite is leading both teams in score with <10 kills, having like 20000 score. I can talk to non-relatives and the awkwardness is only felt internally. I also can make the computer say “Hello World!” Overqualified comes to mind. I have a similar skillset, and I am a girl. I can haz job pleez? Lets not get into specifics You're fired. Back in the 90s I knew all the doom2 cheatcodes and was destroying it on civilization, emperor difficulty thank you very much. Never got to fit all the internet onto a cd, that's a lot of geocities, props to your hubs. That was just the AOL CDs. Whaa?? You can try to change my mind here but, oh man, three wheel was awful! 200 deaths, 2 million healing done Also Al Pacino’s name is heavily publicized in the marketing campaign and his picture is featured in big on the movie poster alongside Sandler, but his actual screen-time in the film is basically the same featured in the trailer. He’s already in talks for an animated film titled boner dogs written by judd apatow. Efron, Spade, Topher Grace, Kevin Hart are also connected to it. >Running Time: 135 minutes Do we really deserve this? This is incredible, but I think you missed an opportunity not calling the movie *Hi Jack.*  Incredible work. Did your soul split in half when you made this? Maya Rudolph reprising her role as Casey Janine Fitzpatrick from MacGruber I love it Dude did a thesis on Adam Sandler I agree except for Sandler playing his own wife. Better to have him also playing a female terrorist, preferably Rob Schneiders beleagered girlfriend that Terry Crews somehow falls for. That way, the role of Sandlers wife can be played by a actress who is WAY too young for him. Maybe Chloë Grace Moretz. Ok, so what award didn't he win before Jack and Jill? How dare you name a character Chuck Finley and it not be played by Bruce Campbell! Awesome I love this! Me and my friends had a similar idea for a movie starring Adam Sandler. He joins a therapy group for men going through mid-life crisis only he accidentally joins the terrorist group ISIS through mistaken identity. It’s going to be called “Mid-Life Isis”. Coming to Netflix Summer 2022. > Predicated Tomatometer score - 6% Feeling generous, huh? Another masterpiece from /u/LundgrensFrontKick. Would 100% watch. Literally lol’d while reading the synopsis. Nothing but love for the Sandman! I think what's going to happen is that Barstool Sports is gonna pay him a big chunk of change to get "Boner Dogs" finally made. 50 First Dates was originally set in Seattle until Sandler signed on and convinced the filmmakers to change it to Hawaii, in part because he wanted to vacation there. Ever since he has done this with several of his movies. Blended - South Africa Just Go With It - Hawaii You Don’t Mess with the Zohan - Mexico Jack and Jill - Cruise Ship I'd prefer a Happy Gilmore sequel where Shooter McGavin goes pro in hockey with the guidance of coach Gordon Bombay, and Happy teams up with the original cast of Mighty Ducks to do an exhibition match in Mystery Alaska, where he missed the final game because he get's drunk and fights with Russel Crowe. Is OP Awesome-O? And if so, do you come in a pleasure model? A chase scene on Jet Skis around the lazy river of a resort sounds like the new opening scene of Fast 10 or ending of Bad Boys 4ever. And I didn’t know how badly I needed it until now. Add in a little nitrous and Vin Diesel swiping a Corona away from an unsuspecting man and you got yourself a banger. I think the only thing you were missing mid-plot Adam Sandler's character loses faith that he can save the president so the female (whose name I forget) tells him that he can see her boobs if they succeed, this is somehow enough to convince him to continue with the rest of the movie He could just make Boner Dogs. Can someone please make a poster for this Not gonna lie, I came up with a pitch for a very similar movie once called "Last Resort." It was not meant to be a comedy, but reading this I realize that it probably should have been. But he's already been attached to Boner Dogs. From all of your lovely, and quite bizarre, studies, this one might be my favorite haha. It’s so detail-oriented and statistical in finding the worst outcome of something, I’m equally amazed and intrigued. Weirdly enough, now I really want to see this film made so I can see whether your hypothesis is correct or not. Love it. I enjoyed bulletproof :( Holy shit this is awesome Nice work man! Can someone with photoshop skills make the poster? Send this to him and hopefully he will pay you for your hard work or give you something in return. This is the material he needs to successfully fail at making a bad movie that will ironically become his best and a cult classic. I feel like The Rock would have a cameo in this movie at some point... I am pretty sure if Adam Sandler tried to make a bad film, it would turn out awesome. COVID19 giving us off-season shitposts for film This is fucking brilliant. Great work dude. I won't stand for the disrespect of Bulletproof I don’t know... you’ve essentially given us “Sandler Presents: Die Hard.” I’d argue that’s way to tight a plot for a Sandler flop. If you look at his worst movies, they’re the ones where stuff just kinda happens. Dunno how you have a character named Chuck Finley and not have him be played by Bruce Campbell. What's hilarious is that even his shitty films generally make money. The dude is absolutely living the dream. Making whatever he wants with friends, and still making money because of people like me don't give a shit if it's terrible, because Sandler is still fun to watch. It's like hanging out with your buds, you think your best friend is hilarious even as your wife grumbles and cracks a second bottle of wine. I respect your appreciation for the brilliant Zohan. I unironically think that movie is more rewatchable than his early stuff (i.e. Happy Gilmore, Billy Madison). He wasn't nominated? Really? edit: I guess I should point out I haven't seen the movie, I've only heard universal acclaim for it and his performance. So the disparity struck me, is all. > None of his Fresh films feature a jet ski - 50 first Dates (45%), Jack & Jill (3%) and You Don’t Mess with the Zohan (37%) are all Rotten This is the kind of hard-hitting journalism I subscribe for If I offer a few suggestions: 1.) Increase runtime to 195 minutes. This is going to be the culmination of Sandler's career of shitty movies; we're going to Endgame this bitch. 2.) Make it a musical. I'm not sure if Sandler can sing well normally, but him singing in one of his exaggerated voices is, literally, (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mA1FWjriD60). Also Sandler sings, literally, every single song. If the song is meant to be sung by another actor, Sandler sings the song while doing an impression of said actor while said character lip syncs. Poorly. 3.) End the movie with something so genre defining, so brilliant, that people will NEED to watch this movie. Force them to sit through \~3 hours of the worst movie of their lives just for roughly 10 seconds of payoff. Alternatively, make the ending so explosively, apocalyptically bad that it achieves the same effect, while also being so bad that anyone who tries to leak the ending on websites like Youtube will be violating virtually every conceivable term of service. I love this beyond measure. Please let this be a thing. Terrorists hijacking Sandler’s vacation is also the climax of his forgotten first movie *Going Overboard*, so his career would be coming full circle in a neat little way. Nice to see Abed is doing well. I love the work you've done here, but I think there's a shortcut you could have taken to making the worst Sandler movie of all time, and that's to just make a sequel to literally any existing Sandler movie. I think this theory is borne out by Grown-ups 2 and I'm naming it the Microwave-A-Pile-of-Shit Paradigm. For the purposes of this theory n=real-Sandler-films. As in (https://www.reddit.com/user/LundgrensFrontKick/) 's pioneering work on this subject, I'm not including Spanglish, Uncut Gems et al, as they're more like real movies that Sandler just happens to be in. No matter how inoffensive a given pile of shit is, microwaving it automatically makes it magnitudes worse than even the vilest pile of non-microwaved shit. Therefore, reheating even the best of Sandler's movies as a sequel would make it definitively worse than any other existing Sandler movie. However, we see that this already exists as Grown-ups 2. Meaning Sandler either needs to make Grown-ups 3 or jump straight to a 3rd or 4th part of another existing Sandler movie, a la (https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0093405/). Something like Sandy Wexler 4. There is actually a jet ski in 50 First Dates as part of Sandler’s characters ploy of posing as a secret agent in the very first scene I hate bad Sandler films (Even the ones people say are good but aren’t like Billy Madison) but I don’t think I could be any more behind his next if he meant it because there’s actual purpose behind it this time, like it’s our penance as a collective. The pointlessness of the exercise in cruelty has been replaced with a goal I can appreciate: Revenge. Uncut Gems was good, but "Best Actor" good? Um... This seems like it would be so bad it might actually be brilliant. Your other posts are extraordinary. Now, who here is good enough at photoshop to create this poster? This write up has given me the perspective that this man probably just loves goofing off and hanging out with his closest friends and collaborators. And that’s why he doesn’t care if the movies are shit! Good on Adam, newfound respect! ... Adam, is that you? I’d just have him doing his penguin voice from Billy Madison and screaming and going on an ultra violent killing spree. Steve Buscemi randomly shows up. Yes to Al Pacino or some other god-tier actor, for no discernable reason. *It's like we had ten million dollars left over we didn't know what to do with.* Is this the r/movies version of a “peak off-season” post? I love it. It looks like you've put more effort, research and planning into this than most actual released Adam Sandler movies! Adam Sandler said he would make *yet another terrible film if he didn't win a Best Actor Academy Award for Uncut Gems. To help him out, I analyzed his films and their movie posters to come up with a perfectly bad Sandler film entitled 'Jacked Up'. There, fixed it for you Netflix: "Greenlight it." Jacked Up: 2 Jack 2 Jillious One problem: Al Pacino's name isn't Al anymore. It's Dunk. My man just gave away the key to film making in an Adam Sandler shitpost carnival This is amazing. My suggestions: Someone mentioned the title should be Hi Jack. That IS the title! I came up with a cast list and gave them names (using some generic name generator): Adam Sandler as Jack Goodheart with Terry Crews and Maya Rudolph in their roles. I disagree with having Sandler play the wife also. I was thinking to make this more terrible we need to cast an actress that is too good for a movie like this. I was thinking Amy Adams as Janet Goodheart. But the role could also go to Drew Barrymore or Jennifer Aniston. The terrorists operate under codenames and they use the names of the Spice Girls. Rob Schneider is Posh Spice, Salma Hayek is Scary Spice, Taylor Lautner is Baby Spice, Luke Wilson is Ginger Spice and Peter Dinklage is Sporty Spice. We then have Jack's high school friends at the reunion: Kevin James as Sean Riley Chris Rock as Lamar Valentine David Spade as Reid Neilson Kristen Wiig as Molly Ward Steve Buscemi as Daxton Webb And we got to have celebrities as themselves: Al Pacino will play himself, Vanilla Ice (whose performing at the reunion) as himself, Shaquille O'Neal as himself and to remind everyone of Uncut Gems, Kevin Garnett as himself. This movie would be absolutely terrible but I would love every minute of it. You're a beautiful person. Don't ever stop you precious little cinnamon bun You are most decidedly Adam Sandler’s number one fan to have gone to this much effort to put this whole thing together. Can you do the opposite to pick the factors that would make for an outstanding..... Pamela Anderson movie? (Pick 90s celebrity) Sneaking in the name Chuck Finley like we wouldn’t think of Bruce Campbell. Nice try OP. But really excellent work and it would be the worst movie I ever went to the cinema 3 times to watch Adam Sandler has already made a terrible film. Many of them. You lost me at Kevin James... I think Adam Sandler couldn't deliberately make a bad film that is worse than when he tries his best. Condensed, formulated insanity. I love it. I ain’t afraid to admit....I really enjoy Adam Sandler movies. Like all of them. I think there is a comfort food type quality to it for me. Is Chuck Finley a Burn Notice reference hidden in there? Only thing I’m not sure about is Costa Rica. He picks his comedy locations based on where he wants to take his family on vacation. Costa Rica is a little cheap if it’s going on the studio’s dime. I would totally watch this movie!!! Best of Reddit By trying to make the worst possible film it could very well become the best comedy of the last 20 years. Rob Schneider as a terrorist and Terry Crews as a Senator? Come on, that has greatness written all over it. He just didn’t seem sincere or like an authentic douche bag in uncut gems. I wanted to hate the character but hated the acting more. If you’re really quiet... You can actually hear Adam Sandler reading this post and furiously writing notes. The “I feel no pain” scene in Zohan is hilarious I would actually watch this .... The sad thing is even though I know it’s designed to be terrible, it sounds hilarious and I would totally see it. Make a film called unhappy gilmore where he gets addicted to meth and accidentally kills his kids on the driving range but golf helps him get his life back together but unfortunately gets eaten by a crocodile just as he's getting his life together I absolutely love all of this *except* the fact that you threw in a character named Chuck Finley and didn't cast Bruce Campbell as him. You were so preoccupied with whether or not you could do this that you didn't stop to think if you should. If anyone asks me for an example of using data analysis for evil I will direct them to this post. Lost it at 135 minute run time Someone needs to send this to Sandler's manager. Only issue I see is Sandler playing his wife. He needs an actress that is waaaaaaaaay out of his character’s league. Like, atrociously too good for him. Maybe Jennifer Aniston? Or Kate Beckinsale? Or go ahead and use Salma Hayek since she’s already in your cast? Either way, Adam Sandler would never stoop to being married to himself. Kevin James, yes, but never himself. OP, you always have the most interesting analysis-posts! >Adam Sandler plays a personal trainer/shoe salesman named Jack Goodheart who is married to Janet Goodheart (Also, Sandler, using a very off-putting voice). I couldn't get past this line for five solid minutes laughing to myself like an idiot. Perfect. This is brilliant... too brilliant. This is going to end up being the best Adam Sandler movie ever made, and it's going to win an Oscar. You've gone too far. thank you for turning all that data into a very hilarious read for a hypothetical movie You son of a bitch. I'm in. So coming back to this after watching Hubie Halloween and this post practically nailed the head on the coffin. What do y'all think? Perfect. He should play the hotel's sneaky manager (think John Turturro in Mr. Deeds). The trailer scene isn't even in the film Will there be another blatant Dunkin' Donuts advertisement where Al Pacino makes a mockery of his entire career? All the big names should have like 1-2 lines and the rest of the movie is actors playing their first role. You know, give the Hollywood hopefuls a chance at a big movie. Basically the same thing happened to me when I decided to see Chef because of RDJ. However, that was a good movie, Jack and Jill is not Al Pacino can be a no line cameo. All his lines will be in the trailer and actually be funny. It will all get cut in the actual film. The actual cameo can be a sad al Pacino in a commercial that Adam Sandler and his wife watch sitting at the same hotel bar al Pacino filmed at. . It could go like this: Al Pacino sits at the hotel bar. He looks sad as he sips on a glass of orange juice. Commercial is narrated by David spade: “‘it’s been a rough year. Your wife left you, you just lost your job, and you find out from your doctor you have irritable bowel syndrome. (Al Pacino goes wide eyed and rushes off camera. Farting sounds in the distance) through bad times and good, Tropicana. Taste the perfect orange juice”. * fades to black* How about Pacino on a TV in the background of the obligatory overwrought dramatic scene, interview style of Pacino saying there's no way in hell he'd appear in this shitty film. Loosely attached Will Ferrell is the voice of the boner. I had to scroll way too far down to find this comment. After the Apatow interview. He seems into it and could make it happen. I’m kinda kidding but kinda not Give the AWLs the film we want!!! Sandler Topher Efron seem the most enthusiastic If Adam Sandler's next film isn't boner dogs I will spontaneously disapparate from this mortal coil Loosely connected Will Ferrell also loosely attached It's a mix between Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer & Hansel and Gretel Literally only here for this comment How could you forget Patton Miles Teller as well! Kevin Garnett as well. Eric Roth as the writer its like hansel and gretel meets rudolph the rednose reindeer Nope But, I think the super long running time is key to its badness. Are we even mentally and physically ready even? Whoa. I love that title. I see it more of a trilogy, Sandler's John Wick. Hi Jack, Jacked Up, and finally Jacked Off. Or.. wait for it.. Jacked Off *Hi Jacked* would be perfect That's beautiful High Jack - With Seth Rogen instead of Adam Sandler Make the island have a building that is the tallest in the world in order to attract business and tourism, include a BASE jumping scene, and call it High Jack. Oh Hi Jack. I thought he was a carrot. 🥕 Don't forget, Rob Schneider also isn't allowed to play it as a stereotyped character. He has to play it basically as himself. I could totally get behind Rob Schneider being a criminal mastermind. For real. Same here. I laughed to myself pretty hard. I immediately said "I'll watch that". The goat fetched SOAP Slightly off topic, but I heard Rob Schneider hires immigrants from Home Depot to choke him in the shower. If true, he might not even have time to play a terrorist. I really want the Rob Schneider-as-a-terrorist scenes to just be completely tonally different. His scenes should be hyper dramatic, complete change in music, shot on traditional film and given that filter that seems to be in every Chris Nolan film. It should feel like you changed the channel and stumbled upon a serious drama starring Rob Schneider as a vaguely ethnic stereotyped terrorist leader. Mine was jet ski lazy river I'm imagining at some point OP had an Abed-style psychotic meltdown from the Nic Cage scene in Community. Seriously, why even fear hell if you've already put yourself through this. He sold his soul to the Devil so that we can see the light. So are we going to spam Sandler with this post or just let this brave man effort go to trash Is this guy ok? Someone has to go check on him Apparently Voldemort is an Adam Sandler fan OP was so preoccupied with whether or not they could, they didn’t stop to think if they should. each of these posts is a Horcrux I had to do it. I love MacGruber Take these broken wings ♫ Actually, I think he wrote the code to the AI that will produce the next 20 years of Sandler movies. I assume this guy sees in numbers. He put more thought into this than Sandler has put into his movies. His wife should be played by Steve Buscemi. I think this all a little too inside the box. I think one of the principle characters should not be one of his regulars, but rather a YouTuber with a preteen demographic in their acting debut. That being said I also feel like Mike Myers should be involved somewhere. He should start seeing just how far he can take the age gap before the audience thinks it's too creepy and pushes back. Now he's in his fifties and his love interests tend to be in their thirties. As he gets older his love interests can keep getting younger until he has to rip off the scene in that one Transformers movie where the guy is talking about Romeo and Juliet laws, and has a card in his wallet explaining why it's okay that he's dating a 17 year old. If that still doesn't scare audiences off he can make an anime movie where he dates a woman who is definitely 500 years, don't question it. If he plays his own wife, terrible movie. If it's played by Tea Leoni, it's golden and I'd watch it  Fuck it. Why not make him play every single character doing a voice. His wives tend to be not only younger, but incredibly attractive. I vote Blake Lively or Alexandra Daddario. Yeah this was my only complaint as well. The only movie where Sandler played the female lead was Jack & Jill, where he was his own twin sister. A selection of Sandler's movie wives/girlfriends in films he produced include: * Jennifer Aniston (multiple, most recently _Murder Mystery_) * Kathryn Hahn (_The Do-Over_) * Michelle Monaghan (_Pixels_) * Drew Barrymore (multiple, most recently _Blended_) * Susan Sarandon (_That's My Boy_) * Katie Holmes (_Jack & Jill_) * Salma Hayek (_Grown Ups_) So in fact, while his love interests are always _way too hot_ for him, they're generally fairly age appropriate (the youngest being Katie Holmes, but Sandler is younger than her actual ex-husband Tom Cruise) EDIT: Looks like I also missed Jennifer Hudson and Julia Jones, who are both 2-3 years younger than Holmes. But the largest gap is still 15 years (or 20 for Sarandon but that's the opposite direction) and those two were specifically supposed to be younger (Hudson for the story and Jones for the joke). So I'd go with someone like Charlize Theron or Halle Berry or Jennifer Garner. At the youngest, maybe a Gal Gadot or Mila Kunis (both of whom are younger than Hudson and Jones) Why not both? That and The Wedding Singer is awesome and one of his best movies. If we are going to terrible and want robotic, half-screaming line delivery, his IRL wife would be perfect. Source: Wife just made me watch Wrong Missy. Terry Crews should have a different role as the only person who should be Chuck Finley is Bruce Campbell He was annoyed about his Funny People snub. Glad you caught that! I throw in Chuck Finley references whenever I can. I don't blame him though, adding Bruce Campbell would solely make the movie go back to a Fresh score. I feel like this would be the perfect vehicle to introduce Chuck Finley, played by Bruce Campbell, as a detective with is partner, Bruce Campbell, played by Chuck Finley. It would take some re-imagining of Jacked Up, but it could spawn it's own movie series, like a sort of knock-off Lethal Weapon. A Bruce Campbell appearance could only improve the movie tbf Damn, I was 9 minutes too late! THANK YOU! YES! I was looking for this comment! Everybody knows Chuck Finley is Forever You know spies, bunch of bitchy little girls Or have Chuck Finley play a guy named Sam Campbell. It’s ok so long as Terry Crews plays it as Bruce Campbell as Chuck Finley. Add some extra layers to it. Also Bruce Campbell is only in bad movies if they’re actually good ;) Bruce Campbell fans are a bunch of bitchy little girls i’d watch this Does Rob Schneider play the leader of ISIS? He forgot: Predicted Netflix Score: 97% Recommended For You Thanks! I meant predicted (whoops, made the edit). I appreciate you catching that. I dunno, negative 6% seems about right Me too! I'd background watch it many times on Netflix. Seems like a fun flick. It's people like you who keep encouraging him to make crap like Murder Mystery! The rest of us want another good Sandler movie, like we *used to get* from him in the 90's and 00's! Zac Efron heavily attached Too bad Hank signed away the rights to the CoD League Came here for this comment, thanks for your service Weirdly, Hawaii works so well for the plot of the movie. It's much easier to orchestrate a fake life for someone on an isolated island, where she won't constantly walk by news tickers or billboards. Edit: typo In fairness, 50 First Dates is actually good. It's actually the only romcom I like.  I'd love to see that after Jacked Up. Can Sean William Scott's character from Goon be in it? HAPPY GILMORE 2. STAY HAPPY. Happy is living in his grandmas house wearing his green jacket alone, with a huge crummy beard. They don't show you grandma, but she yells SHUT UP from another room even though the audience knows she'd be 112 years old, you don't see her the rest of the movie but they didn't want to kill her off. He's watching baywatch with 10 pints of empty ice cream and pizza boxes everywhere. He falls alseep on the couch when he has a dream, its chubs saying you fucking no good slacker you're acting like a damn fool, you became a loser happy. Go back into golf again and win another master like tiger woods did. Happy is startled awake by a knock on his door, the same eviction asshole he threw out the window 20 years earlier is back for his grandmas house because happy hasn't paid rent in 8 years since. Happy goes into a rage breaking things with his hockey stick driver club. He knocks on whats her name's door and she answers, she says you look like shit happy, then a second later shooter mcgavin walks out the door and says hey happy, you beat me at golf but now I got your girl. They have a fist fight and happy is arrested. He gets out of jail because in a cameo Deuce Bigaloo pays his bail and says "you can do it" you don't see him the rest of the movie. Happy decides fuck it, he'll go to the driving range where he sees his old caddy, but its not bill murray this time its Kevin james as the hobo. Anyway Happy is too fat and old to play golf so he coaches hobo kevin james to play in a tournament. An hour of filler with go to your happy place and training montages ensue. Hobo kevin james shoots 112 on his first day but gets one hole in one by accident when his ball lands on a 2020 FORD FIESTA PRODUCT PLACEMENT and the ball bounces off and miraculously flies into the hole. It doesn't matter because he shoots a quadrouple bogey on every other hole and makes 20 bucks in winnings. They use the winnings to go to subway baskin robins. Happy sells whats left of his soon to be foreclosed mansion for 48,000 when it should be worth 4 million, and buys a shack down by the river where he befriends a talking bear. The End. Think you might have to miss someone from that original cast that isnto going to be in any movies anytime soon. I can't believe I had scroll down this far before seeing this reference. I think Jacked Up, Fasten, and Bad Boys 4 all need lazy river jet ski chases. I'd retire if that happens. Much like the Ridiculous 6 it has to be tone deaf too so she shows him at the end but turns out she's pre-op trans. I hear a lot of big names are attached to Boner Dogs. I made a poster, hope you enjoy! https://i.imgur.com/s6NDxCM.jpg Yes please! I kept looking for and expecting to find a poster, but there is no poster This is the whole reason I came into the comments. Please deliver, Reddit!!! Here is my attempt: https://imgur.com/gallery/u3gRDyQ Jack Reacharound: The Last resort Loosely attached Glad you like it! I wanted to make it as objective as possible and not have it come across as hater-ish. I loved figuring out the details. Disneyland. Yea I feel personally attacked rn. I also enjoyed Bulletproof!! Fuck the haters!! You'll always be my bodyguard. Thanks! I had a fun time analyzing his films and pulling trends. Good excuse to rewatch Sandler films. I'd love it if this got to him. The rock should be his client in the beginning of the movie, who is aspiring to get a body as great as Sandler’s I'm trying to corner the R/movies shitpost market. Thanks! Glad you like. Hear hear! That's a good point. I figured the 135 minute minute running time would make it like a Die Hard ripoff featuring lots of hanging out. Bruce Campbell would make the movie good actually. Exactly! I respect him for that, and I think he knows exactly who his audience is I'm really surprised at the score of some of them. Grown Ups 1 was solid, and 8 crazy nights isn't bad. Everyone forgets about Little Nicky :( yeah, he definitely made you fall in line and root for a bad guy, and the this is how i win part gave me chills. I honestly didn't think he was that great in the movie. His performance was good. That's about it, imo. It was definitely against type, but why should that automatically make an actor Oscar-worthy? I got through about 20-30 min and the dialogue was unnerving, people wouldn't shut the fuck up and just kept talking over each other. Secret Agent Henry Roth. You take that back! Billy Madison is cinematic genius! Billy Madison is the last gasp of the surrealist '80s comedies like Airplane, Hot Shots, and Police Academy. After Billy Madison there's a noticeable transition to about 10 years of teen sex comedies and straight-forward gross-out humor. The whole premise is just so absurd to begin with that it's easy to roll with the jokes. I love the ridiculous categories interspersed with normal ones in the final quiz bowl. "My Wife, the Tramp", "Burning Dog Poo and the Human Response", "My Spouse is Sleeping Around". The response of the quiz master is probably my favorite scene in a comedy. Just this one fleeting moment of lucidity in a movie where everyone has clearly lost their minds. I thought it he was brilliant in it. I absolutely despised his character as a person, but he was so charming that I couldn’t help cheering for him anyway. That takes some skill. He 100% should have been nominated, although he never would have won anyway. His acting in that movie was really impressive, it absolutely merited a nomination Thank you! Thanks! I'm flattered and hungry now. Redlettermedia does an interesting twist on their usual movie reviews where instead of reviewing Jack and Jill per se, they detail how Adam Sandler movies have essentially become legal financial fraud schemes. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sXNsT7-Lwsk) But you caught me again at Selma Hayek. Or maybe he can plays himself relaxing in the resort and complaining that he is about to do a cameo role (as himself) in a terrible upcoming comedy. Or literally it's just a framed photo in their house or something and that image is used on the poster, but Pacino never actually acts in the movie. In the end 65% of the scenes featured in the trailer will not be in the film. the trailer scene is in the film, but it's a different take No but while showing Sandler to his room he will talk for an entirety of 4 Minutes about how they only use Caspar Matresses and how you can get one to try for 100 nights by ordering online snd how they are the greatest matress made by actual rocket scientists. That was the entire point no? Im someone who thinks the Duncacino ad is actually hilarious and not in an unintentional way. Headline: Zac Efron loosely attached to boner dogs “I’m so hard it’s crazy” Just gotta get that second act nailed down. I’m kinda surprised by how many of us are in this sub And Debbie Does Dallas The "Sandler Cut" is released on Quibi 4 years later as a collection of 40 5-minute videos. Does any character do blackface in the movie? 210 minutes seems like the perfect painful length... You forgot to add to this list "Holding unrelated object" **Poster** * Title centered * Sandler(s) on left side - Full body * At least six other characters on the poster *Hi Jacque* Make him have a terrible french accent the whole movie for no good reason. Can the movie feature a cameo from Henry Winkler as the fonz for the jetski race? Maybe the bad guy angrily knocks an elderly Henry Winkler off of the jetski to steal it, and later we see him being carted off in a gurney to an Ambulance while arguing about the ambulance. Either an AARP related argument or a bad joke about having to un-reverse his mortgage or something to afford his healthcare. As he is thrown off of the jetski, he will dive over an inflatable shark pool toy. Hi Jacked off And an opportunity to have Jack's wife (Adam Sandler's second character) to be named Diane. Proceed to just abuse John Mellencamp's song the entire movie. *"A little ditty 'bout Jack & Diane"* over and over and over again. Seriously, all that work and the first comment is a better title. I’m kind of completely in love with everything about this. /u/LundgrensFrontKick Can you please call Mr. Sandler’s reps and make this happen? In the final film of the series we open with our protagonist, Jack, getting offed. We go through a substantial amount of the film where the estranged daughter of Jack gets caught up in her own form of revenge only to discover he's been alive this entire time. Hijinks ensue as the two form a buddy cop duo and lessons are learned between them as they set their differences aside and finally get revenge against Jack's failed murder. The role of Jack's daughter is played by Adam Sandler. Same story, two movies made completely separately. Simultaneously released on Netflix. No no no, he's a stapler! Nope, he turned himself into a pickle. He's Pickle Rob! Rob Schneider playing a white American terrorist is very progressive for his career. Nah he plays it as the "you can do it!" guy > Rob Schneider also isn't allowed to play it as a stereotyped character. He has to play it basically as himself. What if he literally plays himself, but his film appearances are so bad they're considered terrorism? Throughout the movie, he acts out his previous stereotyped roles, which traumatizes the people who see him. I thought you just said that he wasn't allowed to play it as a stereotyped character? I can get behind him being a criminal who believes himself to be a criminal mastermind. Edit: a word I haven't seen an Adam Sandler comedy since Little Nicky, and I was sold. ... mostly I just want to see Rob Schneider do his take on an inept Hans Gruber. Yep, they had me here. This reads like a future cult classic for being bad. And the more ideas I read in the comments, the better it gets. No Adam Sandler movie has ever made me laugh this hard. Its the double edged sword of throwing Little Nicky into the mix. Its so bad, people love it. grade a liquid niteigrenneosporin I heard he once paid a waitress $500 to step on his dinner at an Olive Garden. Same! That sounds effing hilarious. Passing the same half-drunk fat guy like 6 times as they go round and round. Other folks jump in on the race in various flotation devices, not really understanding why. Maybe some Nascar fans end up setting up chairs by the river and and impromptu leader board gets set up. I'd welcome that. *I'm a sexy caaat* *HAAAA HAAAUUU HAAAWWWWW* Instead, it was Abed-style data analysis like proving that Angela Bower is the answer to Who's the Boss.  That scene, for the uninitiated: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F1XCUo_Uu8M Underrated reference right here! About time I started my annual re-watch of that show. That's the tagline for Jacked Up I thought I wasted my time playing video games; I don't feels as bad now. Hell no, we're not breaking quarantine. He'll be fine. Always glad to see so many people in Reddit appreciate that movie as much as I do. Loved the post, always get excited to see another hard hitting research project from you I call my wife to the basement every time one of the sex scenes is on. She mostly hates me.  He is A.W.E.S.O.M.E.-O. Adam Sandler falls in love with a golden retriever..or something Steve Buscemi does a cameo at the end as a paramedic/firefighter who has 1 funny line then is seen no more. That is enough to have him classified as a principal and thus retains his SAG insurance. "Man I'm glad I married *that* woman" (https://youtu.be/HVUHFdHx8nM?t=13) Mike should be done up in the Fat Bastard costume from the end of Goldmember, when he lost his weight. And he CAN'T use the accent, he just talks like Mike. Have him play a digitally de-aged 12 year old version of himself. What movies are you thinking of? In Murder Mystery his wife was Jennifer Aniston, who is just over two years younger than him, and in The Week Of, his wife was Rachel Dratch who is a few months older than him. In Blended he was opposite Drew Barrymore, who is over eight years younger than him, but not that extreme an age gap for people their age. In That's My Boy his only real love interest was his childhood teacher, played by Susan Sarandon, who is 20 years older than him (I admit that I haven't seen many of his recent movies, so I am honestly asking if you have examples.) "Woman who is definitely 500 years" I lol'ed and totally got it. people still love Leo though Played by David Duchovny as Hank Moody pretending to be Tea Leoni I didn't like Spanglish, but I loved Leoni and Leachman in it. You’re risking the film actually being accidentally good there though. Turns out, his wives don't tend to be younger (at least not by Hollywood standards). Unless I'm missing something, the biggest age gap he's had with a love interest in a movie this decade is Katie Holmes, who is 12 years younger than him. (well, technically Susan Sarandon, who is 20 years older than him, but that's not the point.) In his last 5 movies (including those he didn't make himself), his wives were: * Idina Menzel (49) * Jennifer Aniston (51) * Rachel Dratch (54) * Jennifer Hudson (38, this is the one I missed) * Kathryn Hahn (46) Also Julia Jones (_Ridiculous 6_) is 39, which I missed as well, but that was specifically the joke in that movie. Hudson as well, part of the story dealt with her being young talent and him being a talent manager Ok. Terry Crews is the Secret Service agent that ACTUALLY solves the case but everyone thinks is a moron. But he still falls in love with Sandlers female terrorist character. Hahaha, it's all making more sense now. If the award was based on just the first half of Funny People then I could see why he's upset, but that movie fucking nose dived in the latter half. I legitimately have a hard time finishing it when I watch it because of how quickly the tone changes from Good Sandler Movie to Really Bad Sandler Movie. I also came to the comments solely to complain about Chuck Finley not being played by Bruce. I came here hoping you did that on purpose! I high fived you in my mind when I read it in the original post. An exceedingly rare burn notice reference The thing I'm starting to worry about with this film is that it might end up being so fucking terrible that it's goddamn wonderful. Bruce Campbell playing a washed up Chuck F in a fat suit Thor style with no discernable chin should drop it back down. Hey rest of the winter. You *monster*. Redditors too (if you’re desperate). You read my mind! Rob Schneider would be the “Isis leader” and get to understand Adam Sandler’s middle of the road American values and have a change of heart. They would possibly face off in a basketball tournament. "It may be trash, but it's perfect for you!" “Hey, you’re a piece of shit. You’ll probably love this movie.” Thanks Netflix. var recommendedPercent = 90 + Math.floor(Math.random() * 9); Sandler's comedy hasn't changed almost at all. You're different, he's staying the same. Murder Mystery is a perfectly average and serviceable "action" comedy. It's definitely not good, but it also didn't make me want to turn it off. He’s making movies his kids can watch. I’m sure when his kids are a little older, his movies will be a little more edgy. He made Uncut Gems and an absolutely hilarious stand up recently, so I think we’ll start seeing better output from him soon. Sandler is better when he’s uncensored. Judd Apatow also heavily attached A 'fake like' would be the premise of the 2020 version I'd wager that 50 First Dates counts as more of a Drew Barrymore movie than it does as an Adam Sandler movie. > In fairness, 50 First Dates is actually good. It's actually the only romcom I like. Blended is pretty funny family-friendly movie to watch if you have kids. Jack and Jill is the only one of those I really dislike. > It's actually the only romcom I like. like in general? wow interesting Wedding Singer >>> 50 First Dates The Lonely Island has a song called "Japan (Because our label is paying for the video)" And Ocean’s 12 on Lake Como You son of a bitch, I'm in. I love that movie and honestly I'm fine with Goon 2 as well. Tone deaf and offensive. Yep, this would work well Lol good job man "Loved Pacino in this"-Adam Sandler hahaha Email it to him I would seriously buy a ticket if even half of this materialized. Shoot 'Em Up is the best worst movie I've ever seen, but this sounds like the new standard. Good shit. Kinda my thought process You're doing good work I actually hate it, but in the best way possible. True; you’ve got a lot of runtime to fit in some “wacky antics” not at all related to the plot. I actually enjoyed the Workaholics diehard ripoff. I can’t remember what it was called though. YES!! Dude finally. I keep seeing all this stuff about how brilliant that film was and I 100% do not understand what people are on about. I'm not educated in much film stuff, so maybe I'm just missing something, but I **really** disliked that film. I watched about 70% of it and ended up walking out of the theater. The way it was shot really messed with my anxiety. And not in a "wow, I'm really connecting with this movie and it is provoking emotion from me" kind of way. Was more that the shaky camera, constant dialogue with no breaks, and general lack of structure was over stimulating and I couldn't handle it. I kept sitting there for so long because I had heard great things and thought at some point it would get better but eventually I threw in the towel. I'm just glad I saw it at the $2 theater so I didn't waste too much money on it. I disagree. I thought he was better than some of the nominees but not better than Phoenix. I upvoted your comment even though I disagree because that's how conversations flourish. I only downvote trolls and racists. I liked his performance but the movie bored me. It starts well but goes nowhere and I was just wanting it to end. I still don't get how Brad Pitt won for OUATIH (Supporting Actor), even though he was the favorite. Great movie, but he didn't really do a whole lot of acting in it imo. I watched it last night, it's a horrible movie. Plot just meandering around never getting anywhere. His acting was fine, but the movie and the idea behind it was just bad. I guess if I wanted to watch an documentary of a jeweler with a gambling addiction trying to keep his life from falling apart, it would be epic. Hell even my description of the movie sounds somewhat interesting while the movie is definitely not. Mr. masch619, what you've just said is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever read. At no point in your rambling, incoherent response were you even close to anything that could be considered a rational thought. Everyone in this thread is now dumber for having read it. I award you no upvotes, and may God have mercy on your soul. I like this take. It's not a "great movie" by any reasonable standards, but it strings together an impressive series of very memorable scenes/moments/lines. I actually related to Howie in a way. Not that I’m a middle-aged, diamond peddling Jewish man from NYC, who’s always making shady/totally illegal moves, while cheating on my wife and trying to keep my crippling gambling addiction from getting me beaten/killed. I don’t relate to any of that. I related to the chaos and stress. Having a family to support and doing so by having 14 irons in the fire, all of which at least somewhat dependent on the outcomes of others, the whole thing being highly susceptible to “shit not going the way I planned”, but somehow, by the skin of my teeth making it happen. Only to have a new dump truck load of stressful shit dumped on me immediately after I unfuck the last load of stressful shit. I’m in a perpetual state of unfucking shit and being abysmally stressed. It was relatable enough to give me a bit of anxiety. > legal financial fraud schemes. That's brilliant That's too actually funny AND THEN SOMEHOW WINS AN OSCAR AS BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR FOR THIS ROLE He plays himself, but it's a thinly veiled "parody" of himself called Cal Pachinko. Can we have Joe Pesci there too for some reason The goal is to make a shit movie and that actually sounds funny. Just retired from “the agency” and finally getting that well deserved break. YES, i prefer this. Lets actually get John Turturro back to play the sneaky manager. In fact lets let him reprise his role from Mr. Deeds, his character used some of that money to open up a resort (that he lives on) and chill with the customers (and wash feet when possible) u/LundgrensFrontKick does that work for you? The trailer includes more genuine comedy than the film itself This is a rebellion isn't it? I rebel. I highly reccomend DailyDunkaccino on Twitter, I have had the song stuck in my head for an entire week. Yo Efron is a hard yes. He's holding on loosely, but won't let go. The real joke is Quibi still being around in 4 years Terry Crews should be married to Wayans bro in full White Chicks drag RDJ should do it just to be super meta Oh my god that’s brilliant. My only question, is the wife French too? THATS THE BAD GUYS NAME Yes. 100% I love it. Maybe have a big build-up too. The high school reunion is going to feature a special mystery guest. Everyone is excited, nobody knows who it is and all sorts of rumors are going around about who it could possibly be. It's a running joke that everyone is guessing through first act of the movie. "I thought I saw Madona in the hallway earlier, but it turned out to be an old Halloween skeleton." or "Guys! I saw Snoop Dog!" "What? That's not Snoop Dog. That's the bellhop who checked us in earlier. Do all black people look the same to you?" Finally, the curtain is pulled back on the stage to reveal a very depressed about life Henry Winkler sitting on a jetski clearly not giving a fuck about this event. He gets the name of the high school wrong and immediately launches into a half-hearted timeshare sales pitch. At that moment the terrorist burst in and shoot him in the head before kicking the trailered jetski off stage where it lands on top of an inflatable pool shark. Then have Snoop Dog actually show up at the end of the movie for a very forced and awkward musical number because fuck the audience. Adam Sandler’s character can be named Jack Doff in the movie. That's the sequel... Hi Jacked Off: Jacked Harder On it We're really blowing through the CGI budget of de-aging and gender swapping Adam to play an older grizzled man and young female daughter. Naw, Rob Schneider is... Kenny! ^^Rated ^^PG-13. fuck you! you'll see it! he only uses that line in the enjoyable movies though Rob Schneider as the terrorist, with Adam Sandler trying to stop him. Schneider: No one can stop me! Sandler: You can't do eeeeeet!!! *leaps to atop him*  You know he'd be in brown face and middle eastern. No hans, only humus. Liquahid-nitro-glehigneen! That’s hot Did you at least start Goldbluming at some point? That was brilliant Same! I thought the post was just about Adam Sandler’s vow to make a bad movie. Holy... look at OP’s post history. I hope this shit is getting published in peer-reviewed journals because wow. This is some doctoral level stuff LMAO  Nah that’s a little too good of a tag line. 😉 "I will suck your dick, I will suck your fucking dick, just join my team. I'll suck your dick, you can fuck me, you can get fucked by me. You can watch me fuck something? Just point at something in the room and I'll fuck it for you! Just tell me what you want me to fuck!" it is one of the funniest movies of all time for its specific type of comedy "to this day i still cant figure out why Cunth hates me" I'm gonna shoot. I'm gonna fucking shoooot. NON-SEQUITUR I like that reddit always has Steve Buscemi's back. "I've saved a lot of asses in my time. Yours is by far the ugliest." *Walks away* Did you know he was a firefighter on 9/11?!1 He's one of their old classmates there for the reunion. He talks about losing the weight, and everyone has to be really positive while dancing around the fact that he has so much extra skin. Brilliant, adding Mike Myers would ensure the film crew has just as much as a miserable time as the people who ultimately watch the film. Have him play and date a digitally de-aged 12 year old *girl* version of himself, who's actually a 7000 year old dragon in a child's body. Can we just take Léon: The Professional and deepfake Sandlers face/voice over Portman and Reno? And add in a jet ski chase. I lolied Huh, I just checked and he only has 9 years on Kate Beckinsale, I thought it'd be more. You can pinpoint when the movie takes a dive- right when Eric Bana's character gets introduced. The last scene should have been the one where seth rogen whispers something to leslie mann as sandler gets on stage to perform. Would've been perfect, but hey would it have even been an apatow movie if it didnt overstay its welcome by at least half an hour? But it's way more Apatow movie than Sandler movie. In a Sandler movie, he would have magically won her back and rode off into the sunset and Ira would have gotten laid every other character would have had a happy ending. Instead, George does not get what he wants because that isn't real life and he has to accept it and not much has really changed at the end. The length complaints I get, but I don't understand why people hate this movie. It makes me so happy that people are picking up on the name. Same here! or like, actual Chuck Finley, the left handed power pitcher who divorced Tawny Kitaen after she beat him with her stiletto... Glad you know the reference! No chin Bruce? Has science gone too far? Nah Bruce is really good at making self depreciating humor work. It's kinda his thing Someone needs your help u/karmagirl314 Disgusting. I love it. ^ What my Tinder profile says I find it hit or miss depending on the movie. Some of them I love, other ones are kinda meh, but I'd agree they're all build on the same foundation. With Will Ferrell as the voice of “The Boner” Didn't they have like a whole bunch of movies together? Like they joke that they are each other's on-screen spouse. I haven't heard of Blended before. I see it's reviewed similarly to 50 first dates and wedding singer. So I'll have to check it out. Sadly there’s no actual video All of that, anxiety included, was not only intentional but it was the point. EXACTLY. I just re-watched that movie (which I loved), and was thinking the exact same thing! It was a great role, and he was very funny in it, but there's no way it was Oscar-worthy. Another example of being rewarded by Academy members for a reason other than the nominated role. Lanceturley, I have a feeling that your whole family is going down. But right now, I have to keep scrolling reddit. Yeah we're trying to make a shit movie here. He should appear in the background of a scene, maybe at the reception area, on television promoting his newest film. Like you'd miss it if you were looking for it and no spoken lines. Have it filmed from behind and then when it slowly pans over his face it's actually Adam Sandler doing an Al Pacino impression while Al Pacino walks by in the background. But film the same scene with Al Pacino talking and sitting in the chair and leave that clip in the trailer so people get confused enough to not realize it at first. It's three scenes, two clearly filmed in the same day at the same location. In the third one he says he's got to leave for his terrible cameo imagines what would happen if hi-jinks stopped him, but there is no pay off, no post credits scene no nothing. He just says 'I have to go now' and is gone. Famous for his previous roles in The good father and Wounded face. Yes. The trailer is kinda funny. Or, like, really good. The film is not. Half the good jokes are not there, the other half is ham-fisted in place and off-beat, or they are made in a worse take. Maybe it's also a very obviously cheap production? Like, you'll see the crew sometimes, maybe the sound glitches, something like that. Yes, but they kids will have a Boston accent His wife, played by him, can be named Jille Doff. Wait, shit, that almost approaches being funny. Can't do that. Obviously should include a flashback to his youth where he is ugly with braces and gets made fun of for having such a name, which is what pushes him to man up, join the military, and make something of himself. No, we’re not doing any of those things. Da derp de derp da deedlee dum You'll see it, fuck you! No, he's Da Derp Dee Derp Da Teetley Derpee Derpee Dumb. and he's about to find out, that being 8... ain't so great. But, it's rob schneider playing the criminal that's not rob schneider who thinks he's rob schneider. I will pull that clip up sometimes because I know it will make me laugh. That one and the more family-friendly clip from Pink panther of Steve Martin trying to say hamburger. Can we also get Brendan Fraser in a cameo as the lead singer of the band playing at the resort? You know, to get all of the Airheads cameos in there? The perfect line. Done! I, too, am here for Charles Finley Glad to see my people here. I had already started typing a demand to speak with your manager when I thought I should perhaps check that this issue hadn't already been raised. But, why not Bruce? Also rooting for Bruce Campbell. Can Terry have a role as Sandler's best friend from high school who is secretly the one in the background saving everyone, but you don't find out until the end? Also came here for this haha. Turks love me, ladies love me; Matt Reese. *michael grins sheepishly* It pissed me off so much I came down here to yell at you before finishing the post. Now I gotta go back and see what all those movie poster images were for... /r/suicidebywords It's a little bit Rudolph The Red Nosed Reindeer mixed in with Debbie Does Dallas, and Hansel and Gretel. 3... I think. I mean, Quora's never wrong. Right? https://www.quora.com/Which-movies-have-Drew-Barrymore-and-Adam-Sandler-starred-in-together IMDB got in on this one too. https://www.imdb.com/list/ls076264204/ Here's 20 interesting things about their relationship (even though nobody bothered to ask) https://www.thethings.com/20-surprising-facts-about-adam-sandlers-relationship-with-drew-barrymore/ EDIT: JFC the formatting is killing me here. Of course not, the budget got cut during recording. The only problem is that that is actually really funny. I laughed out loud reading your comment. I think the actual worst thing they could do, like not even funny thing they could do is let Al Pacino overhear them talking about a problem waiting in line for something, Al Pacino turns around, takes off his glasses to show that he is in fact Al Pacino, and then laughs. Says he has been in the same situation before, points at something that shows the funny aftermath of that problem and then give them advice they could have thought of themselves. Then he takes his order and walks away. This is a bad Adam Sandler movie. It would be Scarbutt. The Father Bod Jehovah's Advocate. A moustache that's photoshopped _in_ Or... do it, but just take every conceivable opportunity to state the joke super obviously. Just beat the dead horse until it's a soft leather sack of horsejelly. Get out What about her being named Jacquie Doff, just to make it extra confusing? Ok we are rewriting the story. It's about conjoined mentally retarded twins Jack and Jille Doff who stumble into a sexual relationship with a terrorist for the carrot liberation front ~~plagued, autocorrect typo too good to delete,~~played by Rob Schnider. Lmao Adam Sandler = Jack Adam Sandler in a fat suit and a blonde wig = Jack's wife Adam sandler in a blonde wig = Jack's daughter Rob Schneider in a blonde wig = Jack's daughter's friend This is pretty much what the entirety of the OP read like Um... okay. How about this: Adam Sandler is like, in love with some girl, but then it turns out that the girl is actually a ... golden retriever, or something. From the creators of Der and Tum ta teetly ta ta too Rated PG-13. We all read this in the correct voice, right? Yes! Get the band back! Brilliant! Ooooh mojitos! I, thrice! Bruce deserves better. Every othe scene its Bruce, the switches to Terry. it bugs only Sandlers characters, everyone else thinks hes nuts. > The only problem is that that is actually really funny. I laughed out loud reading your comment. I was genuinely trying not to be funny, so I'm not sure how to feel about what that says about me. > I think the actual worst thing they could do, like not even funny thing they could do is let Al Pacino overhear them talking about a problem waiting in line for something, Al Pacino turns around, takes off his glasses to show that he is in fact Al Pacino, and then laughs. Says he has been in the same situation before, points at something that shows the funny aftermath of that problem and then give them advice they could have thought of themselves. Then he takes his order and walks away. You're right, that would suck. And the fact that I can picture it so vividly is partly because it's definitely similar to what Adam Sandler (or at least similar film makers) has actually done. The line "say hello to my little butt" wins an MTV Movie Award for Best Line in a Movie. Or Fartface Or do it, ignore the joke completely, and then have Mark Wallberg come in at the end and do a scene about why is everyone oblivious to the obvious jokes. >soft leather sack of horsejelly There's an alternative movie title. Can we throw in a hologram of Chris Farley? They'll never work in this town again You can't pluralize "The Lone Ranger"! Jesus, we can make this film funny... If the devil had a name, it would be Chuck Finley. Terry plays a character named Sam Axe. Seems risky. Wallberg is a wildcard that could end up being accidentally ironically funny. (https://youtu.be/ZjpUfdjYR6s) I'd accept it as a critics blurb somewhere on the DVD case. Adam, if you're watching this you have my full permission to quote me if you actually make this abomination unto film. Say more - Netflix Its just Brendan Fraser up there by himself as THE Lone Ranger. And yet it worked for The Lone Gunmen. Y'know the internet once thought it could make a good film. Then snakes on a plane came out. It's certainly funny though so maybe. “What? No!” Make it Will Ferrell and John C Reilly being really over the top and unfunny about it. Wasn't the funniest net sourced movie when someone asked 4chan for ideas on making a porno? (it was bane themed) God I feel like we're brewing the perfect storm of mediocre half assed comedy movies from the last 20 years. If we keep this up we're going to Producers this whole thing. This is the best thread of the year, so far as I'm concerned. You just took years of burning hatred and in the span of 20 minutes shifted it all into burning brilliance. Thank you. Ps- 2 am, and watching Phantom now. DDB enters room full of droids and WAVES HIS ARM declaring "Oyo, boyos", while the droids simultaneously hum into life and rotate their heads to him. I feel inspired. Some interesting evidence just popped up on one of my feeds. I don't know if anybody else posted it here, but. . . https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WUOwsRv6MLc Look at the lip sync. Look at it. So the title of Phantom Menace refers to Jar Jar then? He was the real menace all along? I can get behind this. /u/Lumpawarroo was hired by disney to test this plot twist on the fans on the starwars subreddit. They knew that everyone hated jar jar, but they wanted to see the reaction if they were to include the big reveal in the movie. So far the reaction has been positive to this plot twist, so get hype! I actually just finished reading the novel version of TPM today. I honestly had never given much thought to Dooku's character or the possibility that he was a hasty addition to the franchise. But I noticed a fairly big error in TPM. It referred to Yoda as Qui-Gon's former master, not specifically in name but it did say that Qui-Gon's master had spent 900 years in the order. Only one character fits that description. Suddenly, in AotC, Dooku was Yoda's former apprentice and Qui-Gon's former master. So after reading this about 100 times i decided to turn the movie on and check it out for myself and noticed something that i havent seen anyone mention. In the scene where Jar Jar says "the queen is being nice" "Pitty hot", no one mentions the fact that Padme (who has been the only one talking with Jar Jar and Anakin) was dressed as a handmaiden the whole time. How does Jar Jar know shes the queen?? Also when she reveals herself to the gungans, Jar Jar isnt as shocked as everyone else, even though through out the movie when he gets shocked even a little bit he faints or freaks out. I like this theory. It always fits with a part of TPM that always felt odd to me. When Jar Jar arrives in the underwater kingdom thing, they take him seriously. They point spears at him, and don't act like he's just a bumbling idiot. They seem more worried about him than the two Jedi he's with. Contrast this with the absolute conviction of the federation dudes that the Jedi are a huge potential threat. It is clear soon after that they recognise them as Jedi, so they're not acting from ignorance. Not long after, when they're on the way to the planet's core, Qui-gon asks Jar Jar why he was banished, and Jar Jar acts very shiftily, saying it was because he was "clumsy" and yes, "you could say that". He does, though, acknowledge this was "a small part of it", while being extremely evasive. The Jedi seem skeptical, but presumably don't think too much more about it. Jar Jar then describes causing great damage. They are then attacked by a big fish, who is then eaten by another, bigger fish. Qui-gon comments that "There's always a bigger fish." This "introduction to Jar Jar" struck me as very strange. It never occurred to me that he might be the big villain of your theory, but damn, it really fits. We're introduced to Jar Jar as feared, dishonest, and with reference to a "bigger fish". It also seems strange that they have this guardian angel of a giant fish. Part of me really wants this to be true. It would be pretty risky, to the point where fans may actually walk out of the theater because of their past experiences with the character, but on the other hand it would be a great way to redeem his character. I just can't believe you actually managed to make this make sense. Good job. Saving this post in case you're right. Qui-Gon: "There's always a bigger fish" > Here's what I think happened: I think that Jar Jar was initially intended to be the prequel (and Dark Side) equivalent of Yoda. Just as Yoda has his "big reveal" when we learn that his tottering, geriatric goofball persona is just a mask, Jar Jar was intended to have a big reveal in Episode II or III where we learn that he's not really a naive dope, but rather a master puppeteer Sith in league with (or perhaps in charge of) Palpatine. > However, GL chickened out. The fan reaction to Jar Jar was so vitriolic that this aspect of the trilogy was abandoned. Just too risky... if Jar Jar is truly that off-putting, it's potentially ruinous to the Star Wars legacy to imply that he's the ultimate bad guy of the entire saga. So pretend he was just a failed attempt at comic relief instead. On the off chance you're right about this, what a damned shame that Lucas chickened out. Jar Jar being revealed as Evil Yoda in the second movie would've retroactively redeemed so much of TPM... Honestly, even if you're not right, you've written a much better version of the prequels than what we got. I honestly think you're the one who is the evil Sith manupulator, trying to get us to rewatch the prequels just to focus on Jar Jar. Just to add a bit to the theory: Lucas almost always draws on other sources (like any good storyteller) to form his world. So can we find inspiration for the character of Jar Jar Binks in the way that you describe? Absolutely. 1) This has already been mentioned by several others, but if Jar Jar is simply playing the fool as a means to the insidious ends of bringing about the fall of the Republic, destroying the Order of the Jedi, and establishing a galactic empire, then his character would almost mirror that of The Mule from Isaac Asimov's foundation. Powerful telepathic mutant who played the fool but mind controlled and manipulated others to get his way, worked mostly in the background and through politics, and managed to bring about the destruction of the complacent First Foundation on Terminus and establish an empire spanning a third of the galaxy. The correlations are painfully obvious if Jar Jar is, in fact, maliciously manipulative. 2) The name could perhaps provide some clue. Lucas is often not particularly subtle with his naming choices while still not making them seem unnatural. Skywalker, Solo, Darth Vader, etc. So can the very name Jar Jar Binks help solidify this theory? Let's take them in order. Jar can mean a number of things. From Merriam-Webster.com, "to have a harsh or unpleasant effect on someone or something", "to hit or shake something forcefully", "to make someone feel uneasy". A couple of secondary meanings given are "an unsettling shock", "an unpleasant break or conflict in rhythm, flow, or transition". Now for Binks. My best guess is that Lucas was drawing on another already existing source as his inspiration for Binks. The popular fantasy world of Xanth, created by Piers Anthony and with its first book published in 1977. The main character of the first two books and a recurring character through other books in the series is...Bink. Copy/Pasted from Wikipedia, here is Bink's description. > Bink is the Magician of Magical Invulnerability and the main character in the first two novels of the Xanth series, A Spell for Chameleon and The Source of Magic. He is the son of Roland of the High Council and Bianca. He serves as king pro-tem during Trent's reign. >Bink is banished for not possessing a magic talent when, in fact, he does possess magical ability. Bink's magic does not want to be known because, if it were, those of non-magical means would injure Bink and his family, with the magic being indirectly responsible. Hence, in order to keep itself hidden, Bink's magic works in quiet ways, by seeming coincidence, and very few people know of it. For example, it causes an invisible giant to walk by just as Bink was to reveal his magic whilst under a truth spell. Furthermore, Bink's magic protects him, making him seem an unusually lucky man. So, Jar Jar Binks. With the above information, his name seems like it could actually help inform what George wanted from the character. And based on this information, if Bink is in fact the source for Jar Jar Binks' last name, then it implies a hidden magic user who appears to be just ridiculously lucky but is in fact just keeping his true nature on the down low. And the two Jars are perhaps to tell us that he will cause a dual jarring: one in the Star Wars universe when he destroys the Jedi Order and dismantles the Republic, the other in the movie audience when his true nature is finally revealed. EDIT: Thanks for my first gold! I almost wasn't convinced about the force jump on the ledge ambush, the the Droid that fires at his previous location sealed the deal for me. Jar Jar is an evil Sith overlord. Thank you for posting this, it's the most enjoyable thing I've read online in months. I had a few thoughts supporting your theory: 1 - George Lucas did an excellent job of hiding the truth of Vader being Luke's father from people, down to filming the scene one way and then bringing a elect few back to do the scene again. So, if it is as you say and the idea was abandoned partway, it's very plausible the number of people who knew the epic twist would be a scant few. 2- Given the size of Naboo and the fact the droids go only after the Naboo and not the Gungans, it is extremely unlikely Binks would just happen to be at the landing site of any federation ships, much less the ship carrying Qui Gon Gin. He can't sense droids maybe, but I bet Master Qui Gon was a big bright beacon. 3- When Qui Gon sees him, those ships aren't moving fast and all things around are fleeing. Jar Jar makes no attempt to flee, but instead waves his hands and blocks QG's path, then clings to him. Afterward, he follows QG, pledges to be his servant and when told "that won't be necessary" replies "oh, but it is, it's demanded by the gods it is." 4- His whole initial dialogue with the two jedi focuses on two points, A, that QG has saved him once, then again, and he owes him and must be his servant. B, the safest place is Gungan City, but Jar Jar will be in great danger and trouble if they go, setting himself up to go with them when they leave. 5- during the dialogue with Boss Nass, they cut to Jar Jar as Nass is talking, and Jar Jar gesticulates in his handcuffs, perhaps steering nass with the force. 6- QG "overdoes it" when he uses the force to calm Jar Jar when the third fish shows up. This conveniently gives Jar Jar an excuse to close his eyes and focus on taking control of the nearest bigger fish to come rescue all three of them. He wakes up and clears his head, dramatically shaking it off the very moment the fish 4 takes its first bite of fish 3 and the dnager to them has passed. 7 - Honestly, I half suspected you'd somehow tweaked or altered the balcony scene as part of an elaborate hoax, but having just watched it twice Jar Jar is just as stealthy, then suddenly becomes a clutz in time to present a target and then jump away and land on the opposite side, complete with droid firing high then snapping its head to Jar Jar's position. 8 - On the way up the ramp to the ship during the escape scene, just prior to your hyperdrive sabotage theory moment, Jar Jar gestures, and then is the second person up the ramp following Amidala/her double, with her honor guard in tow. There is now way an un-jedi influenced personal queen's guard is going to let a Gungan they just met, a race that hates Naboo, be between them and their queen, right? 9- The first thing Jar Jar says on Tattooine is, this sun is doing murder to meesa skin. He's aquatic. Why the hell is he going with QG and R2 to the city to find parts? QG seems appalled at the idea of taking Padme, so why is he cool with taking the clumsy/bumbling Jar Jar? Perhaps because Jar Jar contrived to be there. 10 - When Padme is at her most uncertain, it's Jar Jar's mention of the Gungan's grand army that gives her the push to go back to Naboo, and coincidently make Jar Jar critical to her plan, as he is the only Gungan she knows. JFK level shit here.. Dont forget him impersonating a Jedi in the clone wars. When he says, "Meesa called Jar Jar Binks" he's not saying, "My name is Jar Jar Binks" just saying that that's what people *call* him. This is an entertaining read, but if it turns out to be true this thread will become legendary. Holy fuck! To lend credence to this theory here is the voice actor of jar jar binks making a comment to the effect of George changed some of the story because of the backlash. (https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/236oks/iama_ahmed_best_actorwriterdirector_best_known/cgtzef8) The entire world is going to collectively shit its pants on December 17 when TFA's "I am your father" moment at the end of the film is Snoke lowering his hood to reveal himself as Sith mastermind Jar Jar Binks. The ultimate long con. Lucas planned it all along. He endured all the criticism. But when he was looking to sell Lucasfilm to Disney, he told them of the plan...and it all came together. Episode VII was announced immediately. Now soon the name Jar Jar Binks will fill the hearts of millions with fear and despair. Deception is a key characteristic of the Sith. Wouldn't put it past him out of curiosity, I don't ever recall this happening, but you've used a lot of actual evidence thus far so I feel I must legitimately question this (*sigh*): did Jar Jar actually tell 8 yr old Anakin that Padme was "pretty hot"? /u/lumpawarroo: User created 13 days ago. 1 karma in links, 15.227 Karma in Comments. Only 2 comments both about Star Wars. So, is /u/lumpawarroo: a) George Lucas b)A Disney excutive c) A Lord Sith d) All the others above e) None the others above I want this to happen so bad now. Robot Chicken even supports this idea. It's all coming together. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5qAKXK_aLeA The actor for Jar Jar has just announced this https://mobile.twitter.com/ahmedbest/status/661221044712148993 This... This might be true. Wouldn't this violate the rule of two? I think not. When Palpatine gained power, he instituted The rule of One. He would not actually train new apprentices, only people powerful enough to carry out his will. But in this instance, Jar-Jar is sith... Leading me to believe that Palpatine instituted his rule to stay in line with the Rule of Two. I hate how convincing you made this. "Jar-Jar is key to all of this." -George Lucas in making of featurette. Here's a little thing to help you sleep tonight... Dutch to English ... Vader = Father Snoke = Pike/Fish (carnivorous fish) "There's always a bigger fish...." Traveling to the core TPM http://www.ancestry.com/name-origin?surname=snoke Oh my god, this is actually going to happen. http://imgur.com/tXUcDXo  George Lucas has a history with characters turning out to be more then they seem/plot twists: - Lando's betrayel, and redemption - Leia and Luke being siblings - Obi Wan's introduction as a mysterious robed krayt dragon-screeching hobo - Yoda being introduced as a drunken muppet - Darth Vader being Luke's father - The Death Star 2 actually being operational - Leia as the thermal detonator bounty hunter at the Hutt palace - Han being a scumbag who's in it or the money, but later transformed into a rebel general - Obi Wans story about Luke's father. - Palpatine, Dooku, both assumed the guise of good guys. The list goes on and on, George Lucas loves these kinds of plot twist. After some thought, I also understand why Palapatine and Jar Jar killed Qui-Gon. Qui-Gon hated Jar Jar from the moment he saw him, and was a way more competent Jedi than Obi Wan. He instinctively fought Jar Jar's whole act. He might have been able to prevent the whole Anakin shitstorm, and thus saved the Jedi order. Darth Maul was a sort of Kamikaze pilot (We all know George Lucas loves himself some japanese culture, and Darth has the whole samurai scary helmet thing this going on). His mission was to kill Qui-Gon, the whole fight was rigged that way. The walkways and energy walls were the perfect way to seperate the two jedi. After killing Qui-Gon, he sacrificed himself. Losing to a disarmed Obi Wan after fighting 2 jedi at the same time and killing the master isn't something I ever thought was very logical. The fight on Tatooine between Qui-Gon and Darth Maul also hints at this. Darth Mauls droids have had ages to locate them, yet Darth Maul only appears when everyone but Qui-Gon and Anakin are on the ship. He was literally waiting on a cliff nearby, when the droid tells him the target is approaching. He completely ignores Anakin, let's him escape and positions himself between Qui-Gon and the ship. The sith knew Obi Wan would be granted Anakin, while being way to inexperienced to handle such raw force potential while two sith slowly maniplulated Anakin into being the perfect jedi killing bomb. I mean seriously, Obi Wan was a nice dude, but he was just a dumb warrior. Always just a bit behind the facts, always unpleasantly surprised by the turn of events. Wouldn't you grow resentful of being trained by some doofus who isn't really a jedi master while you're the most powerful dude in the galaxy? It's a really good plan. You put an unhealthy amount of work into this. It's both amazing and disturbing. If this is all true, then George Lucas is a legitimate genius and we are all idiots for our reactions to TPM and Jar Jar. I can't believe how badly I want this to be true. deleted ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.6545 (https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/81566) So... Literally some of the first lines of The Phantom Menace, by Obi-Wan no less, are > "I have a bad feeling about this. ... It's not about the mission master, it's about something...elsewhere. Elusive." and then, after Qui-Gon tells him to focus on the here-and-now, Obi-Wan says that Yoda has told him to be mindful of the future. So... looking forward vague foreshadowing of something dark and elusive to be found in the near future, something that Qui-Gon would overlook? Jar Jar, maybe? Well, Lumpawarroo, I was thinking about something, and if anyone can do this, you can. Here goes: Can you make the Holiday Special good? Is it even possible? I don't know. But this post has made me review my expectations.  This also explains the rest of the gungan peoples reaction when he returns with the jedi. Jar Jar said he was exiled for an accident (I always assumed collapsing one of their living bubble things?). So we are meant to believe that he is the village idiot, cruelly exiled. This raises questions - are the gungans such a cruel race that they exile all their mentally disabled? They seem fairly peaceable. Why not imprison Jar Jar? Commit him to a home, where he and others will be safe? Instead they exile him. Why? I don't think what happened was an "accident" - it sounds like maybe a power grab went wrong, and they knew he was too strong to be killed or contained. So they made a deal. They wouldn't tell anyone what happened if Jar Jar left them in peace. If he were simply the village idiot, so hated for his stupidity, why were the gungans who saw his return so wary of him? They aren't a particularly polite race - why didn't they tell him to GTFO? Simple. They are afraid of him. They let an exiled gungan re-enter without protest. A security officer comes over to handle it, and instead of just showing the village idiot the door, what does he do? TAKES HIM TO THE LEADER OF THEIR RACE. What? If he truly was a bumbling dork, that would not happen. DarthDarth Binks. Movie is now cancelled, Disney will re-shoot to support this theory God damn it... I think you may have ruined the new movies for me... Because I doubt this will happen and when I walk out of the theatre no matter how good it is a little bit of me will be so disappointed that this didn't happen... How wonderful if it did though... In my book this is canon now and forever... Praying for it in The Force Awakens Irrespective of how things turn out for Jar Jar in the new movies, I for one am convinced, and moreso, I thank you, for I've finally found a way to let the prequels into my heart. Because I've learned that to love Jar Jar, you must first hate him, hate him more than you ever thought possible. Then your journey to the Dark Side, and love of the prequels, will be complete. The subtlety of everything here complements something I realized while watch (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9LEhOZZbuk&feature=youtu.be): Lucas had a lot of great subtle points he buried under a very thick and lumbering story. There are two examples that stick out to me from one watchthrough: The Manipulation of Anakin and Obi-Wan and The High Ground. **The Manipulation of Anakin** In the original edit, Palpatine's manipulations when it came to turning Anakin to the dark side were not clear. In fact, my mother's biggest complaint about Episode III was that it took this basically good kid and inexplicably made him evil. However, when I watched that edit I saw the genius of Palpatine's plan. He knows that the Jedi Council are beginning to distrust him and would like an opportunity to spy on him. He also knows that his friendship with Anakin would make Anakin an ideal candidate. So, he plants a seed of distrust for the Council's motives in Anakin's mind. Then he asks that the Council make Anakin a member. As Anakin says, nobody has ever been on the council and not given the rank of Jedi Master. By not promoting Anakin, they water the seed of distrust Palpatine planted by making Anakin angry at the Council and clouding his judgement. From there, the other seed, that Padme might be made to live, is allowed to take root, but only if Palpatine also survives. EDIT: Because this wasn't entirely clear, I mean that while Palpatine manipulating Anakin at all was obvious, that him getting Anakin onto the Council was part of the plan was not. I had thought he had just wanted Anakin on the Council to either get someone he's turning into his guy onto the Council or to just get Anakin more power or legitimacy. I did not realize that he wanted the Council to refuse to make Anakin a Jedi Master so that Anakin would grow angry with them and believe what Palpatine had said otherwise. He also wanted the Council to ask Anakin to spy on him for them. This would play right into the narrative that Palpatine had created for Anakin, that the Council was looking to overthrow the Chancellor, and make Anakin, who is already angry, even more distrustful of their motives. The way it played in the original edit, it felt more like a tug of war for Anakin's soul than Palpatine being a chess player and using the Council's predictable reactions against them. To me at least. END EDIT **Obi-Wan and The High Ground** Lucas (in)famously said that the trilogies rhyme like poetry. One case which is often overlooked is the rhyming of the duels between Obi-Wan and Darth Maul and between Obi-Wan and Anakin. When Obi-Wan faced Darth Maul he found himself dangling at Maul's feet. He then utilized a Force Jump and Pull to get behind Maul and defeat him. In the intervening years he studied this situation and learned of the many defenses one can employ when you're on the high ground. Perhaps he sensed he would need it, or he just got an interest in the theories behind high ground vs. low ground lightsaber dueling. Or maybe he didn't study the situation at all. Regardless, one day he finds himself on Mustafar dueling Anakin. Only this time, he has the high ground. He sees the reflection of his situation against Maul and recognizes Anakin's next logical move. He warns Anakin not to because he knows how to defend against it. Because it mirrored where it all began for him. I can't begin to describe the feelings of hope, utter despair, love, hate, doubt, anger and joy that this post brought me. If this post ends up being miraculously correct I'm not sure how I'd react. Burst into tears? Distinct possibility. Rapturous joy? Could be. You are an evil person for making me want this. Mind Blown!! Why do I want this to happen? at first i was "this is going to be terrible" then after i clicked the link "fuck, this is long am i really going to read all this bullshit?" five minutes later "holy shit. this is amazing." Odd (https://youtu.be/8cFOJX4ch_U?t=4m46s) part where (https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1di16MHEzcndhU00/view?usp=sharing). This is especially obvious as (https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1UGs0QWlsa21rOGc/view?usp=sharing) and says "ought owe..." because it might be too obvious what he's doing. Only a powerful Force controlling Jedi could get the crowd to chant based on Jar Jar's hand movements. https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1di16MHEzcndhU00/view?usp=sharing https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1MUFJVVpyUnd3MzQ/view?usp=sharing https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1UGs0QWlsa21rOGc/view?usp=sharing JJ Abrams has (http://www.theguardian.com/film/2015/may/06/jj-abrams-considers-killing-off-jar-jar-binks-star-wars) that he at least thought about having Jar Jar's bones in the background of TFA. ... which can only mean that decades of Sith corruption have turned Darth Darth Binks into a wraithlike, skeletal abomination held together in a state of quasi-life by the hatred and rage of the Dark Side of the Force. The actor for jar jar gave a little insight on a deleted scene with jar jar and palpatine a while back, further supporting this theory http://www.ew.com/article/2012/02/11/star-wars-deleted-scene-revenge-of-the-sith-jar-jar-binks The worst part about this theory is the possibility of it not being true and Jar-Jar actually just being Jar-Jar I... I want Jar Jar back you guys. I'm gonna need a minute to ponder what I just said. I don't know what to say other than this is amazing I think you can replace  with . Because of this theory, more people have watched The Phantom Menace in the last week than in the last 16 1/2 years combined.  The elevator scene in AotC is another concrete give-away that Jar jar is purposely being deceptive. 1. (https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1c0gwWmxMOVNmcnc/view?usp=sharing). He also does not appear to be headed elsewhere because he stays. If he was going somewhere else, why does he pause? He also shifts his gaze as if to see if anyone is watching. 2. As the elevator is opening, (https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1aXE2WDk5ZDI3VEU/view) to act surprised. 3. (https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1OXRURDIyR3V6aWc/view?usp=sharing), even though (https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1d0RmM3BKa0tkOUk/view?usp=sharing). This behavior by Jar Jar is reminiscent of the Waterfall deception whereby Jar Jar acts fearful and clumsy before falling into the water. So Jar Jar is basically The Mule from the Foundation series? I came here to laugh, I did not expect to be convinced. This might be the best thing I've read all year. This is extremely well thought out. How long have you been working on this? Ever notice how (https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7P471Xpxoc1Q1V6d1JiYkNudEE/view?usp=sharing)? And sometimes (https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B7P471Xpxoc1TDhmTFpFZ1pZaE0). (http://a.dilcdn.com/bl/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2015/02/Anakin-Sith-Eyes-1088x500.jpg) (http://www.starwarsringtheory.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/vlcsnap-2014-03-26-21h19m50s154.jpg) (https://bplusmovieblog.files.wordpress.com/2013/05/star-wars-revenge-of-the-sith-730.png) (http://www.listoid.com/image/90/list_2_90_20101213_042954_442.jpg)  Dude. For real. That was pretty good. I *want* this to be a thing. It would 110% redeem Jar Jar. Stellar OP. If this isn't a thing, Disney needs to make it happen. Any Disney/Lucasfilm lurkers in here? Take note. I am 100% behind this theory. I'm now currently rewatching the films with the fact that JarJar is the big bad behind everything in my head.  (/s "In one of the recent Shattered Empire comics, it transpires that one of Palpatine's last acts (from 'beyond' the grave') is to have Naboo destroyed. A pure act of vengeance? Or something more sinister, such as JarJar deciding now was the time to wipe of any remnants of where he and Palpatine met & trained. Knowing that Luke or any of the following Jedi would search out Palpatine birthplace and home for clues") (http://imgur.com/gallery/y8oTn) I just want to say that I was here. I am a witness to the truth. The force is with you, /u/Lumpawarroo. *claps* *rises from chair and continues clapping* *raises hands and electrocutes you* You will pay for your theoretical mind. The part about Dooku really sealed it for me. I always thought his character was random. And in the Clone Wars series he still had very little back story. So, jar jar is Keyser Söze? So, I decided to take a stab at this and just see what Jar Jar would look like if he is in fact Snoke from TFA. He has to be gaunt, undead looking, snake-like features, and cold black eyes. If you remove the fat from Jar Jar it's not that hard to see him as freaking terrifying. I did a concept of what Darth Jar Jar could possibly look like if his gauntness is taken to the extreme. (http://revenantrising.deviantart.com/art/Darth-Jar-Jar-569988902?ga_submit_new=10%253A1446536023) (http://i.imgur.com/W1cKiB0.gif) Clone Wars TV series should bring more evidences "Darth Jar-Jar" has been a thing in our house for years, to the point where my 15 year old can do an uncanny impression of his voice, just so I can hear him say "meesa gonna destroy the Republic!" As an English teacher, I am so proud of you for this post it makes me want to cry. Great thesis, development of your argument, evidence presented, warrants for your evidence. Just beautiful. And it's about Star Wars which makes it that much better. Fully support this idea. Gave me enough strength to watch TPM with my 3 year old. Just finished watching, and I swear when the Queen is trying to get herself into the Tatooine party, Jar Jar is straight up mouthing the words her guard is speaking at the exact same time. He even tilts his head when he says 'curious.' Remember, there was no real war on Naboo. Its own people orchestrated the Trade Federation's presence there, for the sole purpose of orchestrating a cou d'eta in the Republic. Only two people benefit from the plot; Palpatine and Jar Jar Binks. They had all of Naboo's humans captive, and knew the Gungan posed no threat, but attacked anyways. The ONLY person capable of rallying the Gungan to actually get involved WAS Jar Jar Binks. They had plenty of maneuvers to avoid the invasion completely, and ONLY went out to face the onslaught because of Jar Jar. The attack even waited for him to return from his mission of acquiring the Chosen One. They didn't fully deploy the troops until he was back. Cooperation? I think it very well could be! All the plot movements rely heavily on Jar Jar. It's really creepy/cool rewatching in this light. You also kind of realize the most constantly present menace is Binks. Thanks for this, Lumpawarroo. You repainted an otherwise meh movie in a fantastic light for me. For you, a custom drawing by me of Jar Jar Binks with this new malicious and contemplative perspective. Hope you enjoy! http://imgur.com/Rzt8JkB I really like this theory. Oh my god. I kind of want this to be real now. I need to go home and rethink my life. OP is actually JJ Abrams and just wrote this so that we don't get all pissed off when Andy Serkis' character turns out to be Sith Jar Jar. Instead we are all like 'oh it all makes sense.' Part of me wants to believe this. Part of me hopes this is true. EDIT: Holy sith. My now top comment is related to hoping Jar Jar is the galaxy's most important character. I believe. "Why does nobody like him Dad?" "Because we have to loathe him." "He didn't do anything wrong." Because he's the villain Star Wars deserves, but not the one it needs right now, so we'll hate him. Because he can take it. Because he's not comic relief. He's a silent evil. A watchful manipulator. A Phantom Menace....." HOLY HELL, HE'S THE F---ING PHANTOM MENACE. You put a lot of effort into this. Very funny. I applaud you. Damn. I remember reading that Darth Maul was going to play a more major role in the prequels and that the Phantom Menace was rewritten a few times. I bet Darth Maul was going to fill Jar Jar's spot but they killed him off and made Jar Jar the main villain, but he turned out insufferable, and they accidentally lost both characters I really want the prequels remade This is completely plausible if we connect Hego Damask to Jar Jar Binks to whatever shape Snoke takes in TPM. Even when we think of Plagueis dying before the events of TPM, he could be manifesting himself in other forms throughout the 60 or so years before TFA. JJ would never bring back Jar Jar himself, but in another form? Consider this article from Prevue Magazine, July 1983 “Did George tell you the complete SW saga? Yes, all nine parts ... if you follow the direction and project into the final trilogy, you realise you're going to meet the supreme intellect, and you think, how is it possible to create a man who has such profound cunning that he can not only control Darth Vader, but the fate of Luke Skywalker? Control the destiny of the whole galaxy? You'll be amazed!” It's literally brilliant. I hate the Prequels, and now I'm seriously reconsidering everything I've ever said about Lucas, the PT, and all the other "crap" comments I've tried to slaughter about those movies on this thread. It's quite humbling. Bravo /u/Lumpawarroo! Here is what convinced me to become a believer after mulling this over for a few days: &nbsp; We know Snoke is the new baddy; Vader is Dutch for Father; Snoek (which would be pronounced Snoke in English) in Dutch translates to Pike (as in the Fish) &nbsp; (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northern_pike#/media/File:20111204_Ringovenstrand_Snoek.2_Jan_edit1.JPG) &nbsp; Now ... whosa does that Snoek/Northern Pike look like!??! &nbsp; Considering this then in light of the "there's always a bigger fish" comment that many have pointed out ... I am convinced.   Hey guys... What if /u/Lumpawarroo is actually Lucasfilm trying to give the fan base time to see the logic behind this plot twist before Episode VIII is released? Just like "/u/Lumpawarroo" says: It would be a risky move for Lucasfilm to present Jar Jar Binks to be the Sith Master behind it all, but think of the payoff! If they would pull this twist off and the movie gets well received, they would have instantly redeemed the prequels and created one of the biggest twists in movie history! (Even bigger than when it is revealed who Luke's father is in Episode V... Already one of the most iconic movie twists in history) It is also quite strange that this theory would emerge from the fan base now, when most of the evidence that supports this theory has been out since the prequels, of which Episode III came more than 10 years ago! (/u/Lumpawarroo created the account just 12 days ago) Lucasfilm on the other hand would have had every reason to keep this a secret if it was the intention to reveal in Episode II that Jar Jar Binks was the Sith equivalent of Yoda but they chickened out. But seeing the potential a reveal in Episode VII could have they decided to go for it. And now, 45 days before Episode VII, they want to make the fan base see how brilliant this plot twist is in advance and thereby control what the initial reaction to it will be. **/u/Lumpawarroo is George Lucas!** Edit: Also consider how incredibly well researched /u/Lumpawarroo's theory is. A lot of these things, such as which wushu moves inspired Jar Jar's acrobatics/fighting, would be incredibly difficult for anyone to find but the creators. I have an addition to your theory: In addition to Jar Jar, the Sith Lord whose real name we never learn, there's also a Sith whose name we hear but who we never see on screen: Darth Plagueis. It would make sense for them to be the same person, particularly if the character was originally intended to have a much greater role. Currently there's only a strong implication that Darth Plagueis "fathered" Anakin with the Force, but it makes sense that Anakin's "father" was originally supposed to have a much greater role, in the same way that Luke's supposedly dead father has a huge role in the original trilogy. "The greatest trick the devil pulled is convincing the world he didn't exist" Suddenly, the fact that the Jar Jar toy I had was using force lightning makes so much more sense This theory is so nuts, I love it. This is silly and I'm not sure if this has been brought up.. Sith eyes are generally yellow/orange.. (http://vignette2.wikia.nocookie.net/starwars/images/d/d8/Emperor_Sidious.png/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/400?cb=20130620100935) (http://a.dilcdn.com/bl/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2015/02/Anakin-Sith-Eyes.jpg) (http://vignette2.wikia.nocookie.net/starwars/images/4/42/JarJarHS-SWE.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20111208042120) Though all Gungan seem to have Yellowish eyes.. Wouldn't that mean a Sith Gungan woundn't even be detectable? HOW DEEP DOES IT GO! Bravo. You have way too many amazing points. Do you have a source for the Lucas quote? Here's Cambell from the monomyth: >"For those who have not refused the call, the first encounter of the hero journey is with a protective figure (often a little old crone or old man) who provides the adventurer with amulets against the dragon forces he is about to pass. What such a figure represents is the **benign, protecting power of destiny**." Really, you have shown conclusively that he is a pure force user, but being near Palpatine doesn't imply that they are working together. He could be clouding Palpatine's judgement. Perhaps Palpatine even senses something in him but he's so far removed from any training that it's a very bizarre feeling. Certainly he could be a Sith as the Rule of Two is often broken, usually secretly. He is, however, 100% not a Jedi. Given Lucas's devotion to Cambell, my guess is that he is a good guy. Oh, Andy Serkis is Snoke and we haven't seen a shot of the creature he's playing? *gollum* Sorry, kind of choked when I read that point.  This was posted Fri 30 Oct 2015 at 12:05:33 PDT. It will be archived Sat 30 Apr 2016. To show my appreciation, I leave (https://i.imgur.com/dBano1r.gifv) This is without a doubt the most absurd, yet compelling and well thought out thread I have seen in ages. A true emotional rollercoaster, and probably PhD worthy thesis. So thank you. I would love this to happen, but the reveal scene would need to be perfect. The moment Jar Jar's face is revealed titanic groans of frustration will echo in cinemas everywhere. Even if the film was kickass up to this point, he's become such a reviled character you have seconds to win the crowd's attention back before they start getting angry. It would need to be the sort of one liner that would make you shit your pants. Something to make people think "holy fuck, who is this!?" First off, I love this and I love you. I don't think I've ever read an entire thread before but this is absolutely amazing. Everything seems to fit so well and I legitimately believe that this was the original intention for the character now and I will incite a riot if Disney doesn't use this by the end of the sequel trilogy. That being said, congrats on writing the next Cracked article for them. You should see if you can get them to pay you for this. As awesome as this is, I just see George Lucas somewhere reading this entire masterpiece thinking "Wow, that would have been a good idea." My theory: /u/Lumpawarroo is George Lucas. "HERE YOU FUCKING RETARDS LET ME SPELL IT OUT FOR YOU LOOK AT THIS DIAGRAM" I actually had a similar theory last week. Mine differed in that Jar Jar was not the master but just another spy working for Palpatine. Palpatine knew Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan were in one of the transports so he sent Jar Jar to find them and instead of kill them, he wanted Jar Jar to befriend them so he could have a spy inside to learn intel on the Jedi's mission. Once Palpatine becomes Chancellor he decides he needs someone on the inside with the Senators aligned with Padme to make sure what they tell the Chancellor is really the truth. Then once Order 66 happens Jar Jar is the one to bring up giving the Chancellor emergency powers. With Representative Binks' help, Palpatine formed the new Empire. He keeps Jar Jar in the Senate and he keeps spying to make sure no one plots against him. He reports plots to the Emperor and the threat is eliminated. No one would suspect the long-standing respected representative Binks who has always been very goofy. Once the second Death Star explodes, Jar Jar decides that the Emperor couldn't rule properly and that he has been stuck in the Senate for too long. He leaves the Senate and with the help of others, forms the First Order under a new name, Supreme Leader Snoke. Since the EU has been eliminated. Jar Jar's life span could be extended. As for his childhood and being banished from his home, someone else can write that into the story. **TL;DR** - Jar Jar Binks was a senate spy for Palpatine. After Palpatine's death, Jar Jar Binks starts the First Order under a new name, Supreme Leader Snoke. Every so often, one of those far-fetched but well-researched theories turn out perfectly true. I'm reminded of Full Metal Alchemist: we knew the manga wouldn't have the same character as Pride, but when one person on Livejournal showed us who could be Pride, everyone including the original poster dismissed it because (/s "it was a cute kid with no real role in the first anime, except he was former Pride's son"). I'd also like to remind people that when the Harry Potter fandom saw the intials R.A.B. on a note, most people instantly dismissed the actual solution as "too obvious" because it had appeared in plain text on a family tree one book earlier. I want to believe in Darth Jar Jar. Can you start reading GoT? We could really use you in /r/ASOIAF "Jar Jar using Force Persuasion as he hand-waves the entire Galactic Senate and ushers in the death of democracy" That has to be the single best thing ever written on the internet. Is it at all possible that Snoke is a shape-shifter? Like the assassin in AotC? And he's simply used the guise of Jar Jar to infiltrate the Gungans and to hide, in plain sight, behind Palpatine like Padmé did with her hand maiden? Not to mention, Ahmed Best, the actor for Jar Jar, plays a different character who happens to appear right after the mention of the fact that the assassin is a "Changling". If you look at the clip, too, there's this odd pause and gesture by Anakin towards Ahmed. In fact, Ahmed seems to be surprised Anakin is even there, taking a special interest. https://youtu.be/IdSUKIFnYc8?t=7m48s Take for instance, Jar Jar was indeed "banished" from the Gungans, but Snoke actually killed Jar Jar and assumed his form? This could be an interesting segway between characters if there were indeed a flashback. He kills Jar Jar, then assumes his form just as the Trade Federation ships start to land. Snoke is, afterall, being played by Serkis and using mocap. "There is another" - yoda Watch the final point made in this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d9bilMvq5Bc That's undeniable. He's literally mouthing the words the characters are saying. That's close to concrete 100% proof IMO. Heard a similar theory years ago, but no evidence was presented. Just that JJB was around TOO much to not be a pivotal player. That being said, this is awesome. I cannot express how awesome I have found this. And the comments that add more fuel to the fire are spectacular. Plus, I wanted to get in on this before its archived. Isn't Andy Serkis Snoke. And isn't he known for certain motion capture characters I think this has moved from being classified as a 'theory' to the point where Lumpawarroo has just simply exposed a long overlooked truth. Amazing. All of the evidence is overwhelming, but I think the most undeniable piece is Jar Jar lip-syncing the words other characters are speaking (as he mind controls them). There is just no way to explain that other than him being an extremely powerful force-user. The few people who continue to dismiss this theory usually lean on the 'rule of two' concept. To deny the Jar Jar Sith assertion you basically have to dismiss all the evidence (which is asinine to do). ...but regarding the 'rule of two' specifically, it is easily explained by us just not properly understanding what that means. I suggest that it doesn't mean there can only be two Sith, but that they come in pairs, 'a master and an apprentice'. "there's always a bigger fish" In other words, a master can simultaneously be an apprentice to another even more powerful sith. Stunningly, I just read the theory in huffington post http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rob-conery/luke-skywalker-theory-destroys-everything-star-wars_b_8392698.html This is also very plausible (if not as definite at the Jar Jar one). Luke lies, uses wrath massacring the entire Hutt entourage, and absolutely uses the dark side to defeat Vader. In an almost perfect mirror of the Mace/Palpatine scene: *Palpatine is on the ground, about to be killed by Mace, and specifically begs for Anakin to help him. At the last minute, Anakin intervenes and Mace is killed by a long fall. *Luke is on the ground, about to be killed by Sidious, and specifically begs for his father (Anakin) to help him. At the last minute, Anakin intervenes and Sidious is killed by a long fall. Hello, friendly /top viewer. Hope you are having a fantastic day. Well in the leaks they did say some one in the prequels plays a big role but didn't name who because they want us to surprised, sooooooo...... Absolutely incredible post.  Me and my roommate secretly hope that Jar Jar is the sith lord in the new movie, and at the end of the movie, we'll see this scroll by. STAR WARS: THE BINKS AWAKENS I haven't seen anyone post this yet...but Ahmed Best has a picture with Andy Serkis on his Twitter from 2014. https://twitter.com/ahmedbest/status/456824754842779648 Collaborating on Jar Jar's motivations confirmed? Warning: TL;DR material. But here goes: I am pretty much sold on Lumpawarroo’s theory; nevertheless, Jar Jar had to be suppressed. They made the right call. &nbsp; Truly, you have earned a seat in the Jedi Council of Star Wars Scholarship, Lumpawarroo. I have no idea if Jar Jar was ever intended to be the prequels’ ultimate lynchpin of evil (though I would no longer be surprised if that were case). But I now believe that Jar Jar was at the very least a dark agent that nobody would suspect. Ahmed Best (the Jar Jar actor) has pretty much confirmed as much in his  (https://mobile.twitter.com/ahmedbest/status/661221044712148993) unless he’s just trying to stir the pot. But after years of abuse, I think he’s genuinely reveling in the public reaction to the theory . &nbsp; Here is my question: would there *really* have been a stronger reception for the prequel series if they had stuck with the game plan? Prevailing opinion seems to be yes. But I’ve reached the conclusion-and this truly pains me–that they made the right call to stem the bleeding. Think about it. Can you recall such backlash to any character in any blockbuster movie series in the history of cinema? Sure, people hated Paulie’s stupid robot in Rocky IV, but come on!  (https://www.reddit.com/r/movies/comments/363ydg/why_the_hell_is_that_robot_in_rocky_iv/). The now esteemed director Sofia Coppola certainly didn’t suffer the pummeling for her role in Godfather Part III that Jar Jar did. Fandom was almost violent in their response to Jar Jar. The fact that Lumpawarroo’s post has generated so much attention speaks to the collective hatred Planet Earth had for this character. &nbsp; To be clear, I honestly wish there were a way they could’ve made it work. But there are three reasons why I think they made the right decision to put a lid on Jar Jar. &nbsp; 1) We weren’t as discerning or critical about CGI in 1999 as we are today, but we still had no tolerance for CGI Jar Jar. He looked cartoonish in a universe of cool and even acceptably cuddly yet rugged characters like the Ewoks. A deceptively oafish character would’ve worked if we enjoyed his physical presence, a la Donkey in Shrek. We didn’t. We HATED seeing JJB onscreen. And I don’t believe the voice characterization was the major factor. Rembember that the Star Wars CGI was now being compared to the superior quality seen in LotR: Fellowship in 2001. The Jar Jar CGI was about to be destroyed by Gollum and Ent CGI in The Two Towers in 2002. If Jar Jar were given the Darth Vader reveal in RotS, I think those who would have appreciated the subterfuge would have been vastly outnumbered by those who would have felt cheated and manipulated. Nobody wanted to see this poorly-executed, cartoonish turd pulling the strings all along. I’m sorry but you know what they say about hindsight. &nbsp; 2) I don’t like bashing George Lucas. He is the architect of the most iconic film brand of all time (including LotR) and its pioneering infrastructure. But as many have said over the years (and often cruelly), he is not at his best when he’s at the helm of these pictures. Even with this shocking twist intact, Lucas’s writing and direction were not strong enough to make us feel better about the prequel installments. The Lucas approach to revealing Jar Jar as a dark “highly skilled force user” may have turned a lackluster effort into an outright embarrassment. Perhaps another director could have made it interesting (as Irvin Kershner improved on Star Wars with ESB), but Lucas was having none of that for his pet prequels. &nbsp; 3) Here, I’m thinking only as a film exec, not as a fan. The bottom line always matters. Yes, any film carrying the Star Wars mantle will make money, but the profit bar for these properties was set very high. I suspect that the players at Lucasfilm and 20th Century Fox pressured GL to make a course correction. “Give the people what they want, George! They want to see BELOVED characters kicking ass. Sure, Count Dooku may seem oddly important all of a sudden, but we have Christopher F**ing Lee. That’s gravitas, man! He’ll give us an awesome fight scene with Yoda. And what do they really want? They want the Anakin to Vader transformation. They want the Obi-Wan/Vader showdown. That’s the end game. What do they NOT want? The great and powerful Jar Jar.” They had already seen box office declines in ESB and RotJ from the original’s $307 domestic gross in 1977. Nobody wanted to risk Episodes II and III truly tanking due to the forced significance of a universally despised character whose arc wasn’t already predetermined in classic novels. &nbsp; If the prequels were in different creative hands, maybe a Jar Jar as unlikely-evil-conspirator reveal would have worked. It may have killed! But there was no way to backtrack into brilliance. At that time, Jar Jar Binks had to be squashed. Could he be revived into something greater in The Force Awakens? I can’t wait to find out. I mean there's that infamous clip of Lucas stating that Jar Jar is the key during the behind the scenes production of the film that Red Letter Media makes fun of in their review so maybe this is what he meant by that. It would kind of redeem him a little bit. Not sure if you gave them permission or not but this is now circulating the internet. http://www.tickld.com/x/this-guy-just-changed-the-way-we-see-jar-jar-binks This is relevant, don't think it's posted here yet: https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/3lkfdj/eu_jar_jar_binks_is_secretly_the_most_powerful/ It's even the highest post on Reddit of all time. https://www.reddit.com/top/?t=all Convinced beyond any other piece of evidence... The real Phantom Menace... So close its possible! Plus that ending made me crack a smile This thread is blowing my mind so much I can't take this. I wasn't ready for this at all. I remember noticing his lip movements when the movies first came out, but assumed they were just odd idle animations, showing him miming those around him to keep up. Now I'm older and know how CGI works: A) This is not a character trait we see him doing idly anywhere else, B) This is ILM, they wouldn't put the intern's weird attempt front and centre and C) Being computer generated this is not an actor's face doing something a bit off, this is an artist's keyframed animation, done in °perfect° sync. He's not mumbling with a half-second gap, following along. He's on point to the frame. Holy fucking shit. This is it. There's no fucking way. You.. you bastard. This is all true... all of those years I hated jar jar. As a small child seeing the movie I remember looking at my mother and saying "that guy is an idiot, I don't like him, he's going to get them all in trouble" seeing that made it so clear. Smh... we were wrong.... we were all wrong. Shit, I'm starting to believe. my mind is so freaking blown Disney, if you're reading this, its a resounding "Yes!" from me, and the 10 or so people I've shared this with over the last day or so. Well if that's true I hope they realize they have our full support on this. I'd like this, but it's too late, one month before release. If this post came 6 months ago, I'd believe it. Very interesting point. It does lend credibility to the "Dooku was pasted in" theory. Yoda trains the younglings, hence why Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan (in Ep. V) say he has been their master. The fact that Jar-Jar knew Padme was the queen sells this for me. No. Fucking. Way. What makes you think he's talking about Padme and not actually talking about the queen? I may be recalling this incorrectly, but wasn't this scene actually added back in to the film for DVD release, and wasn't in the original theatrical release? What's the purpose otherwise? Surely, Lucas could have gotten his expansive Coruscant matte paintings in the film anyway, why was this little bit added back in? OHHHH SHIIIT The bigger fish symbolism! That's absolutely mind bending! Wow, that part with the spears in the underwater kingdom, OP didn't even talk about this. But this right here is actually convincing me big time, as it shows the perception of Jar Jar within his people... they obviously know he's fucked up. Nobody points spears at you because you stumble around. Foreshadowing that Jar Jar is the bigger fish... Also Lucas said himself "Jar Jar is the key to this". Right after he says "there's always a bigger fish" the camera pans to show everyone in the pod with Jar Jar in the middle. I'm starting to believe. I would be so fucking in shock. I wouldn't be able to speak for months. It would be the greatest long con in cinematic history. It would be the new "No, I am your father" and I'm completely OK with that. But leaking this ahead of time should cause enough people to be aware of it as to help mitigate that. The best thing they could do is remake some of Jar Jar's best scenes from a different viewing angle that shows what he's actually doing, in flashback format.  Even going by their character designs, they kind of look like opposites of each other. Yoda is short, stubby, has ears that point up, and is green. Jar-Jar is tall, lanky, has ears that fall down and is red, a color that strongly contrasts with green. If I were look for an opposite equivalent of Yoda, Jar-Jar would easily look the part. I mean look at how people hate Jar Jar Binks, sometimes blindly. There is a whole thread on ask reddit that asks "Who is the worst character?" and all the answers are JJBinks. The outlash made him rewrite the character most likely. Yeah, I was thinking the same thing as I read it. Having Binks fight Yoda would've been wild, and that reveal would've been really interesting. However, Jar Jar was so disastrously mishandled already that they probably would've fumbled that, too. And it's not hard to imagine Binks vs Yoda marking the beginning of the end of anyone caring about what's going on in Star Wars if it's done in a really stupid way. Still, I do remember that notorious Lucas quote, "Jar Jar is the key to everything"... Well stay tuned, I'm working now to isolate the audio tracks so during the rewatch you aren't distracted, and only hear Jar Jar. Great fact finding, I'd like to just emphasise something from your post. "Bink is the Magician of Magical Invulnerability" And Palpatines master had learned how to evade Death? Might be something there... > Bink's magic protects him, making him seem an unusually lucky man. ....oh my god. This needs to be higher up. It's all coming together.... Even if this all doesn't turn out to be true (sadly I doubt it) we're building an incredibly convincing case for JJB originally being intended as the character discussed. When a man like Lucas effectively names a character "Disconcerting-Disconcerting" , people should have paid a bit more attention.  Yeah. You can almost see the befuddled look on the droid's face as its head whips to the new Jar Jar location: "WTF did that gungan just do??" Exactly. At first, I was like "Haha, good theory. Cute and funny." And then that scene with the droid... Mother of god.... I see this all the time and although it's funny, it bothers me that is says "fish ears". What the hell fish has ears? Lol > 9- The first thing Jar Jar says on Tattooine is, this sun is doing murder to meesa skin. He's aquatic. Why the hell is he going with QG and R2 to the city to find parts? QG seems appalled at the idea of taking Padme, so why is he cool with taking the clumsy/bumbling Jar Jar? Perhaps because Jar Jar contrived to be there. That's it. I'm done. Convinced. How the hell did this take 16 years for someone to notice?! Hasn't George been quoting saying something like in the future, everyone will see how amazing the prequels are, or something like that. I thought it was nonsense. Like those movies are made. They're done. We've all seen them. There's nothing there. What could possibly change between 1999 and like 2025? This will be complete bonkers if it's true Impressive. *Most impressive.* May I be the first to invite you to the Dark Side (/r/DarthJarJar) to further your teachings as well - since I'm not trying to poach, but to spread. Also, I'd like to add this to (http://darthjarjar.com) site if you don't mind, crediting you of course. (http://dreampunk.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/bombad.jpg). He looks like a sith. And don't forget how this whole theory can also be applied to Clone Wars. I'm going to rewatch them now also and search for Darth Jar Jar. Wow, good catch. You can almost picture a scene Episode VIII: *Kylo Ren enters the main bridge of the ancient starship warily, his lightsaber at the ready, and calls out to the shadows:* "I have come to seek the most important familial relic of all, the Japor Snippet. It is said that a creature called 'Jar Jar Binks' stole it from my grandmothers funeral bier..." *A tall, hooded figure emerges from the shadows, large, glowing yellow eyes shining from the depths of its cowl:* "Dassa name me not be hearin' in a long ole time. Long ole time." And OP will be a legend. Yeah, "huge changes." Imagine for a moment that Yoda did not reveal himself as the ultimate Jedi master until Return of the Jedi. That Yoda spent all of Empire Strikes Back wobbling along behind Luke like a pet, going "Hee hee, ho ho, whooooa, can I get another yum yum snack bar, yesss?" Instead of beloved, he'd have been reviled. "How *dare* Lucas ruin Star Wars with a ***muppet***, for chrissakes???" and the whole triolgy is ruined. His tragic mistake this time around was letting the "silly facade" of Mystical Alien Character percolate between episodes, and not having the courage to follow through in the face of intense (but misplaced) criticism. The actor has also talked about, in an EW interview, a deleted scene where Palpatine thanks Jar Jar for betraying the Republic: >In Revenge of the Sith, there was a scene that was cut where I'm walking down a long pathway with Ian McDiarmid before he is turned into the Emperor," Best explains. "And Palpatine kind of thanks Jar Jar for putting him in power. It's a really interesting scene, and it shows the evolution of Jar Jar from this fun-loving kid's character into this manipulated politician. And it was an interesting arc for the character that I thought could have been explored, because the scene is really dark. But it just didn't fit in the movie, which I understand. But yeah, George's take on it is Jar Jar is now just a politician. That would break his manipulative nature. Jar Jar would have to be controlling Snoke. The "I am your father" reveal would have to be an understanding that Snoke is just a mindless puppet without Jar Jar. the craziest thing to think of all of this is, "what if this is right?" He is already halfway there. The name Jar Jar Binks fills the hearts of most Start Wars fans with despair. Wait a minute; despair, anger hatred...my god, George Lucas is trying to turn Star Wars fans to the dark side. The saddest part is going to be me watching TFA and realizing Jar Jar is not in it. Wow, this is a sentence i did not think i was ever gonna say, just 15 minutes ago. Yup. In TPM, when they initially land on Coruscant, Jar Jar and Anakin leave the landing pad in a little air speeder with the Queen and her handmaidens. When they sit down in the car, Jar Jar comments on how nice the Queen is being to them. Then he pointedly comments, "Pitty hot!" To me there's no question that he's literally saying that the queen is "hot," as in attractive. He's not commenting on the weather or anything. It's a completely nonsensical and inappropriate thing to say to a little kid, and is totally weird in the movie....unless you realize what is actually happening (that Jar Jar is a bad guy manipulating an impressionable Annie) Also note that in Attack of the Clones, when they first meet up again, Anakin is forlorn and tells Jar Jar, "She (Padme) has forgotten me completely." Jar Jar is very quick to buoy his hopes, though, telling Anakin, "No, no she's happy to see you, happier than I've ever seen her!" See, Jar Jar has a vested interest in Anakin's continued lust for Padme. Because he and Palpatine have already formulated that as the easiest way to undermine Anakin's loyalty to the Jedi. There's *no telling* how much Jar Jar has been deviously encouraging Anakin's infatuation in the formative years between TPM and AotC. And we must assume that he has been-- why else would Anakin *immediately* start talking to Jar Jar about how the queen has forgotten him? It's because Jar Jar has become his confidant/wing man in the matter. I wouldn't doubt that it was Jar Jar, also, who eventually plants the Padme-death-by-childbirth nightmares in Anakin's dreams. Master of mind control, after all. I actually watched the prequels only last weekend (I know, right?) and I remember this line very clearly, because it seems so out of place. They've just been to Tatooine, land on Coruscant and then Jar Jar springs this line on Anakin. Very weird, and honestly after having my mind force manipulated by the OP I feel this theory is the only sensible explanation for why he said it... You forgot the most obvious possibility: f) Jar Jar Binks Holy shit... (http://mashable.com/2014/10/09/how-george-lucas-gave-robot-chicken-his-blessing/#r3XB34lQb5q5) DAFUQ what if its a hollywood secret that they all know and theyre waiting for us to all see the biggest plot twist in history?! The more you think about it the more pieces keep falling into place... I... This could be the most perfect twist ever! Oh my god, another tweet from him! https://twitter.com/ahmedbest/status/661245185452474368/photo/1 Lucas is sitting somewhere, right now, proclaiming "YEEEEES, LET THE BINKS FLOW THROUGH YOU!" Why have more people not commented on this, this is huge!!!! yeah this is really big. and i don't think this is a fake/troll account. Seems like he's be posting for some time about topics and life in general that has nothing to do with Star Wars. In fact, it looks like he's really into jujitsu (ironic!) What better way to hide your existence than to have a rule which says you can't exist? does he really say this? NO STOP Or maybe Darth Darth Binks is Kylo Ren's Master. After reading this conspiracy that would be so bad ass. They gotta change his voice though it's still annoying. I swear to God. This makes too much sense. It explains Kylo Ren's devotion to Vader. Only someone who had closely known Vader, on a personal level, could have that kind of devotion. I don't care what happens in The Force Awakens, this will be my headcanon. Meesa gonna awaken some forces! I know. About three hours in I stopped and thought, "What am I doing with my life?" Then a mysterious voice answered, "Livin' the dream, man. Livin' the dream." I half agree. ...and I firmly believe this 'theory' is true now. The evidence is overwhelming. And it is genius how, despite this surfacing right now, nobody really noticed the evidence right in front of our faces for 15 years. That said, the PT was not executed well. The dialogue throughout the whole trilogy was pretty terrible. Still, it's possible that Jar Jar *had* to be annoying to the point of insult in order to make us overlook this so thoroughly. Imagine if he had been a little bit cool, or just a bit less ridiculous, that might have been enough for us to pay closer attention to him. As it was, we all went out of our way to try NOT to look at him in his scenes. Lucas did abandon that track though, if it ever existed. He still made Episode II the love story of wooden dialog and zero on-screen chemistry. Even if this theory is true, George Lucas is still the one who brought us the "I hate sand" speech. Jar Jar is probably already on the ship with them, or on one of the other Trade Federation vessels, tracking their movements. It's how he is right there to literally pounce on Qui-Gon planetside- he follows them down. At that point in the story, his immediate goals would be: 1. Somehow insert himself into the Jedi party 2. Lead them to The Chosen One 3. Orchestrate events so that Qui-Gon insists on training the boy Palp/Jar Jar want the Jedi to find and adopt this new Force anomaly (Anakin) so that he can help them destroy the Jedi from within. This is something I can get excited about. I'll be watching Holiday Special sometime this weekend with an eye towards deeper, hidden meaning. We were able to trace Lumparrawoo's IP, despite being rereouted through over a dozen international nodes and proxies, and can definitively report that it leads to a location approximately 60 to 80 feet below ground near the northeaster perimeter of Skywalker Ranch. We were further able to infiltrate the users system and hijack a laptop webcam, capturing 7.8 seconds of low-res video before our connection was terminated. User Lumpawaroo seems to be a white male in his early 30s. Though uncommonly handsome, facial recognition software did not return any viable matches. Of note, however, is a large storage cabinet seen in the background within this presumed bunker, labeled: "Episode IV Reels - Unaltered - DO NOT DESTROY" Woah...let's not forget that the security officer that arrives to handle the situation is not just some rent-a-cop, but apparently a high ranking officer of the Gungan army. The Gungan city received Jar Jar signs and sent out a general.  I think honestly the best thing ever would be for Jar Jar to actually appear in TFA (if only for a brief period to avoid upsetting anyone), but still be apparently innocent *and still doing shifty things visible only to us*. That would be all the proof of this theory i'd need to seal it. > Only this time, he has the high ground. He sees the reflection of his situation against Maul and recognizes Anakin's next logical move. He warns Anakin not to because he knows how to defend against it. Because it mirrored where it all began for him. *never* considered thinking of it this way. Well-thought out good redditor. I still don't know how Obi-Wan pulled off that jump against Darth Maul without getting sliced in half on the way up. My memory is hazy but I recall thinking it was awfully slow and Maul must have been seriously spacing out or something. And as if that wasn't enough, Maul just stands there while he lands and orients himself, when just awhile ago he was defending himself pretty competently against *two* people. The Obi Wan and the High Ground is a very interesting point and very subtle and well noticed. I still do wonder why Maul just stood, waited and watched as a Jedi jumped over him, grabbed a lightsaber and cut him in half though. I thought the manipulation of Anakin was all pretty obvious though, mainly achievable due to him being an impatient and impetuous spoilt brat. It's all a bit lightweight and flimsy and doesn't do the character of Darth Vader justice. I'd kind of imagined something more like, yes the befriending by Palpatine still occurs, and Palpatine feeds him whispers of sith influence on the Galactic Council. The Jedi Council refuse to act and Anakin decides to go it alone and investigate himself, to weed out the Sith threat and earn his place on the Council and as a master. He manages to follow the trail to wherever, and big reveal (to him), Palpatine is Sidious. In a scene mirroring Luke attacking the Emperor in ROTJ, he gives into his hate and attacks (thereby falls to the dark side). He is however bested by Sidious and begs for death, but Sidious takes him captive, tortures him and twists his mind against the Jedi, blaming them for Padme's death (occurred in intervening period due after the kids were born, she started leaving them with the nanny/Jedi/whoever on Coruscant and investigating leads on Anakins disappearance, stumbled onto the planet where he was being held and was murdered by Sidious). Only some time later does Obi Wan manage to follow the trail and find Anakin, apparently alone but filled with hate. Obi Wan frees him but Anakin attacks, believing Obi Wan killed Padme. Obi Wan fights defensively trying to reason with and explain to Anakin, but can't get through. Fight progresses as per Episode III to the High Ground situation, and continues as per film from there (without the "Noooooooo" at the end). Meesa not evil, meesa you humble servant! *waves hand* Because it would redeem a huge part of the prequels. All it would take is a few well done flashbacks: "Oh, goody goody, meesa you humble seeeervant!" *Qui-Gon walks away, camera pans to Jar Jar, showing his bulbous eyes narrow maliciously, his sneering lips curling to reveal a predatory grin* I saw the title and said "Holy shit people smoke real weird shit on reddit". First paragraph and I'm laughing, but couple minutes later and I'm constantly saying "Shit, that's true" "Oh, damn, it can't be" out loud. >And Palpatine kind of thanks Jar Jar for putting him in power It actually might be true 0.o Even if OP's theory wasn't what they had in mind, they should totally steal his idea (and maybe pay him a million or two as thanks for redeeming episodes 1-3.) The only thing is that the visual design of Jar Jar has to change a little. As is, he just looks too goofy to be the main villain. He needs to look a little less weightless and rubbery. Thanks. There could have been more, but I was hitting the 15,000 character limit on the post. I didn't even show Jar Jar using the force to predict the future: (http://gfycat.com/HoarseAdventurousLadybird) ... how did he know the Jedi were going to arrive precisely then and there? There was no doorbell. They didn't call ahead of time or anything- otherwise the Queen herself or her security would have been there to greet the distinguished Jedi- and besides, we know they didn't give advanced notice, because after this scene, Jar Jar has to call out to the Queen and tell her who is there. And everyone's surprised. But not Jar Jar. He sensed them as they were coming up, just like the Jedi sense the intruder assasin bug later that evening. Note how he slyly checks around every corner as he's walkin there, slinking about like it's only natural for him to be sneaky and stuff... but only dials up the "Gee shucks I'm a goofball!" routine when the elevator doors open. I'm telling you, watch the prequels and keep an eye on Jar Jar when the other characters aren't looking directly at him. The truth. As posted by someone elsewhere in the thread: http://i.imgur.com/KamsdYI.jpg Well not *that* long. Took a few hours to write and double check. Encoding all those scenes to mp4 and then loading to gfycat was the most trouble. And thanks! Boss Nass also has yellow eyes though, as do (http://img1.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20130122235412/starwars/images/6/61/Gungans.png). So sadly not really evidence. Grievous isn't a Force user. Just a Kaleesh, who all have yellow eyes. http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Kaleesh Dark Maul? Haha. I know, autocorrect. And fucking give OP a job at the studio! Shattered Empire is only a 4-part series and they decided, out of all the things to be most important in the first series of NEW CANON following Return of the Jedi, to feature an attempt to destroy Naboo. Why? This is unbelievable, I now subscribe to this theory until December proves otherwise. I honest to god think OP was right. Holy shit. > Before being rewritten as comic relief, Jar Jar was a mercenary who ultimately betrays Qui-Gon Jinn. That actually sounds cool. Point 18 the gif of them just whirling the sabers cracks me up every time The greatest trick the Sith ever played was convincing the Jedi they didn't exist. Like when he fools a whole group of Separatists into believing he is a Jedi just based on the robes he is wearing, then later controls a giant sea monster. At the beginning, you can see the sea monster is aggressive, but at the end, the monster is following Jar Jar's orders, which supports the mind control hypothesis. EDIT: Also, when General Grievous somehow manages to get captured. It makes it seem like it was set up by Palpatine to earn Jar Jar a better reputation. You have to admit it might change a lot of people's opinion on the prequels in a fundamental way. All it would take was a few well-done flashbacks. And you have to wonder, why didn't the Empire collapse with Palpatine's death like we all assumed would have? That's usually what happens with dictatorships. And yet 30 years after the good guys "win," we *still* have TIE fighters and mega-weapons and Star Destroyers and Storm Troopers still Storm-Trooping it up... Maybe the real dictator didn't die. But it has to be a character we're familiar with; if Snoke is just some unknown dude that appears from out of nowhere, that's pretty lame. Are there just random Sith hanging out beyond the edge of the galaxy, ready to swoop in and claim power every time one is defeated? That's contrived, and make's the whole OT pointless. To resonate with audiences, it has to be someone we know. It's Jar Jar, manipulating Kylo and company just as he did Anakin and Palpatine. A few things have made me think George Lucas borrowed a lot of ideas from the Foundation saga by Isaac Asimov. The planet of Trantor, one huge city, became the Republic planet of Coruscant (for example). So the idea that The Mule, a gangly character that clumsily made his way over to routing out two Foundation operatives who were incognito in the same way JJB just happened to come across the two hiding Jedi, a character that everybody thought was a fool but who had the ability to change peoples minds by wiring them differently using the power of his mind... Binks is (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mule_(Foundation\)), the fool who helps dismantle the failing Republic in order to begin his galactic Empire. As detailed in the book Foundation And Empire. > Leading up to, during, and for a good time after the Mule's conquest of the Foundation and its trade confederacy, almost no one ever actually sees the Mule or knows what he looks like. EDITS - Zahn created Coruscant for Battlestar Trek (come at me nerds); and revealing something from an award-winning, top-international-selling book series by the most prolific author the English language has ever known, from his 1950s novel based on pulp fiction installments he had published at the end of WW2 is NOT A SPOILER. Well, it's as much a spoiler as revealing that Rick shoots Strasser and tells Ilsa to take the flight with Victor at the end of Casablanca. If you're unconvinced, just think about this: what do you think JJ Abrams' initials stand for? Hey, any actor in the world would have jumped at the chance to play the main villain in a new Star Wars trilogy. They could have gotten *anybody*. And yet they felt compelled to use motion-capture... Search your feelings, you know it to be true. Funny? Jar Jar is the key to all this! He is clearly Darth Plagueis - the Immortal Sith Lord. He still lives so balance was never brought to the force, and Luke hasn't trained any new Jedi, so the Force manifests more Light side Force sensitives (all three of our new leads) and resurrects space Jesus (Anakin) in Episode 8/9 to bring balance once and for all. It all rhymes! >would be incredibly difficult for anyone to find but the creators. You greatly underestimate Star Wars Fans. http://jedibusiness.com/images/actionFigures/e2/e2_JarJarBinks_Big_2.jpg Hasbro didn't get notice in time concerning the frantic Episode II and III rewrites. >Bravo. You have way too many amazing points. Do you have a source for the Lucas quote? Thanks! If you own the blu-ray, it's on the Episode V bonus disc, Yoda design commentary. >Given Lucas's devotion to Cambell, my guess is that he is a good guy. Good point and very appropriate Campbell quote, but one thing to consider is that in a lot of ways, the prequels are the moral *inverse* of the hero's journey. The "adventurer" (main protagonist) in terms of the prequels is Anakin. But his "destiny" is not to become morally perfect, it's to fall to evil. (Yes, I know he redeems himself in the OT, but in regards to the prequels, his journey is one from light to dark) So in regards to protecting his destiny, the protective figure would lead him *towards the dark* (and is thus a bad guy). Anakin's destiny is not to slay the dragon, it's to become the dragon. Reddit PHD granted Thats easy, you reveal his face through a hole in Han Solo's head >Since the EU has been eliminated. Jar Jar's life span could be extended. It doesn't need to be extended, Palpatine already alluded in RotS to the fact that his master had learned to conquer death itself. :) But the emperor dismantled the Senate in episode iv, so Jar Jar must have been doing something else. Maybe he was a grand moff or something. Possible. Honestly, I considered this. It would have to be the "Killed Innocent Jar Jar and Assumed his Form" version, because obviously the other gungans recognize him as a distinct individual with a lifelong history in the community, not just random gungan they've never seen before. However I think it's a needless complication to the story. The simple explanation makes the most sense: Jar Jar is a legitimate gungan, but was banished from his city because he was messing with forbidden knowledge of the "gods," i.e. messing around with that buried Sith ish. Palpatine is from the same planet, so naturally their shared interest brings them together. No permission given, but none needed. Spreading information is what the internet is for. I'm ecstatic and excited that people are starting to share the idea. Yeah, Palpatine was never a "Phantom" from the audience's perspective. We all knew who the eventual Emperor was- they didn't even really bother to mask his hologram face. Jar Jar was the intended villain that was to be "unmasked" and shock everyone, the requisite middle chapter "I am your father" calibre reveal moment. Sadly, it didn't come to fruition. Not until this December, anyway. **(12/22/15)** **EDIT for visibility:** Some of the gifs in the original post that are supposed to be slow motion no longer are when opened in a new window (gfycat has since changed how their links work). You can still slow down those gifs, however, using the up and down arrow keys on your keyboard. Like most things on reddit, though, this entire post is better viewed using (http://www.redditenhancementsuite.com/), where everything looks as intended. Same here. The character has been a fucking menace IMHO but I'd not considered it this way. *Binks* was The Phantom Menace all along? It's so barking mad of an idea it's bordering on genius. As you said, mind blown with this theory. It's a fun spin on things that's for sure. Bro. Trilogy. And furthermore, why was Dooku even necessary? Couldn't Lucas have kept Maul alive? Dooku plays no role that Maul couldn't have played. This is a fair point. That said, even if it applies retroactively because of what happens in Ep. III, I believe Obi-Wan is referring to the training Yoda assigns him when they separate as the reason for why Yoda is his master. Yoda has been contacted by Qui-Gon (it is expressed more clearly in the novel version of RotS than it is in the film) and assigns training to Obi-Wan, training that allows both of them to become Force Ghosts upon their deaths. MY FREAKING GOD He really calls her queen, even we all cant know about ! im done cobweb dime existence square dazzling air longing vegetable strong station *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with (https://redact.dev/home)* I assumed he had broken something important or managed to make an important building collapse or something like that Not just the bigger fish, but a fish larger than two other giants. Palpatine and Maul.  I honestly have no idea how they'd convey this level of explanation and validity on screen, though. OP is insane and shit for doing these detailed connecting of the dot explanations But for all of this to make sense to an audience it has to be told rather concisely on screen. how the fuck is Abrams gonna do that. You piece of shit, that's amazing. The red and green contrast is also appropriate considering the Return of the Jedi duel between Vader and Luke. Red lightsaber vs Green lightsaber. In some ways, Jar Jar and Palpatine are the father figures that Anakin never had, in the process Obi Wan fails at training Anakin. Obi Wan and then later Yoda are the father figures that Luke never had, and the success of Luke, and through Luke the redemption of Anakin, is Obi Wan's redemption. Interesting that you say that, because (https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/236oks/iama_ahmed_best_actorwriterdirector_best_known/cgty74i). Yeah I can just imagine the chatter. "Can we really risk the entire franchise on a Yoda vs Jar-Jar lightsaber duel? People will say it's the dumbest moment in Star Wars history. Can we do something different?" Jar Jar is only mishandled if you assume it isn't an act though. If this theory is true than his performance in TPM was spot on Please. This is amazing. I love listening to music. Palpatine's master supposedly created Anakin through a virgin birth of sorts... Shoot! You know what that makes Jar Jar!?! Vader: "I am your father." Jar Jar: "And meesa your father, Ani!" You've got a great eye for this kind of thing. Any other crazy theories you haven't shared with the rest of us? Yeah, the droid's head twitch was a "woah, woah, back up the truck because we've got a delivery of cookies to ship" moment. They're ears -that look like fish. In the months leading up to the release of TPM, everybody on some SW IRC channel expected the prequel to have some kind of big reveal of the magnitude of "I am your father" (and which we never got). Some guy suggested that Jar Jar may in fact be the real "Phantom Menace" and I distinctly remember being scolded by a veteran user for suggesting this wasn't an entirely stupid idea. I was humiliated and I have felt dumb since. I now feel avenged. There's something about Jar Jar... http://vignette4.wikia.nocookie.net/starwars/images/1/12/JarJar_negtc.jpg/revision/latest/thumbnail-down/width/660/height/660?cb=20110127014506 Remember: expressions are key! As soon as Jar Jar contorts his face into something a bit more menacing, he'd be terrifying. Add to that the battle scar he would've received during one of the battles, and you've got a Sith Lord. looks fucking creepy he is the key to all this I'm currently watch Clone Wars for the first time, started it shortly after reading this theory. I'm absolutely convinced that the Jar Jar theory is consistent with what we see in Clone Wars. Even down to the nefarious plan. In the first season there's one episode where Jar Jar 'mistakenly' botches something on the ship he and another senator are riding. The ship crashes, everybody is okay, except for the senator whose safety harness pops off randomly on impact, killing him. Others are in the same types of harnesses but they are just fine. Perhaps eliminating a political rival of Palpatine's? There are other instances, too, like Jar Jar mind controlling a giant sea beast to save the day. I'm on season two now so I'm pumped watching the series with this theory. Jar Jar is still annoying as hell, but I'm convinced he's a force user, skilled warrior, and accomplice of Palpatine's. I've seen this theory before watching clone wars, and watching it now, every scene jar jar is in, I'm trying to ignore it, but it just makes so much sense. All that false goofiness and extreme luck... Can't be a coincidence  And OP is revealed to be George Lucas's father's brother's nephew's cousin's former roommate. I wanna jump in somewhere that's similar to what you're saying - I had a similar thought to yours, but nowhere near as detailed or realised. The sticking point I had was when Yoda got all crazy jumping around. I didn't know whether to laugh or cry. I literally said aloud "What's next, Jar Jar is going to be a Sith Lord?" Because it would make sense. It would be George's trope. Yeah, if we saw the true nature of Jar Jar at the end of TPM, and leaft us on a "wait, what the fuck is going on" instead of "fuck this idiot", I think there'd be a lot less backlash. Just FYI, look at the coloring of Jar Jar. If you compare his attire and skin coloring, it's very different than all the other Gungans. The normal Gungans are a light alive brown and off colored white. Their attire also matches their skin type for the most part. Very drab and swamp like. Contrast this to the clothing and skin color and they're almost nothing alike. Jar Jar wears entirely black. Black tunic, black shoes, black pants, etc. Even in the shot with Palatine from episode 3 shows him wearing black! His skin color is also of note because it reminds me of a very similar character: Darth Maul. Jar Jar is a dark red, while he does have white colorings, it seems that he's clothed himself in black to offset this. Just a thought. Also, I'm entirely convinced now, great write up! And because the prequel and OT "ryhmes," Jar Jar's big reveal won't be until Episode IX JJ Abrams is sitting in his study right now twitching angrily, deciding who to call first concerning the leak. Yes, let your hatred for JarJar flow through you. I can feel your anger and fear. You will come to the dark side. youre killin me bro. this is such good shit. now I have to go watch TPM for this scene.  I also find it hard to believe that Jar Jar would call her "hot" and actually mean it. From an evolutionary perspective, there is really no reason he would be attracted to her. He does this only - as you suggest - for deceptive reasons. My entire life is shattered. I don't know what to believe anymore. I am shaken to my very core. Jar Jar Binks really, seriously, legitimately could have been the greatest evil in Star Wars. Holy saintly Jesus. So seriously what does this mean? Is Ahmed, a: Fucking with everyone? b: Telling the truth finally (why now just because of a master Reddit theory)? c: Riding on a successful sm wave? d:? That's what I'm guessing. Deception is a tool the Sith used for what .. thousands of years? It would be a wild card of the Sith to break the rule of two - they could only use that trick once before teaching the Jedi that Sith operate differently now. Gahh I'm gonna be so dissapointed if this theory doesn't hold. It's very Star Wars and very interesting. You could make someone watch all the first six movies for the first time. Show them the 7th with this kind of reveal and they may spit out their beer all over the table and couch. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bz-SaMu8k3w) Darth Stimpy Naturally they would learn that his real voice sounds more like Gollum... I was going to say that if you're going to buy any of this theory I think it's a given that the entire shuck'n'jive accent is a fake... except all the Gungans speak like that. It was a beautiful fantasy for a moment. Highest grossing parody of all time?   I've only started finding clips in the Clone Wars tv show. Examples of his extraordinary luck. How the heck does he destroy this giant crab thing? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y2Dj9IsA6Ic C-3PO says we surrender, while Jar Jar says, wesa run! Then he falls down this hole. He's either the luckiest thing in the universe, or he's a Force user: https://youtu.be/K5GnRW0_CzY?t=180 Great picture for the archives: http://blog.officialstarwarscostumes.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/Gungan_Sith.jpg  May the gods of men, dwarves, gungans, and elves, as well as the Force and the Holy Spirit, keep you alive during that ordeal, that you may return enlightened from your perilous journey into the depths of 70's CBS. Good Luck! I love your theory as much as i love the fact that you just misspelled your own username twice. In different ways. The force mind control not working on them/having a reduced effect would explain how Jar Jar wouldn't just have easily manipulated all the Gungans. It would be odd after all if a being so strong in the force wouldn't be able to have his way with the Gungans. Unless being exiled was part of his plan, possibly as a reason to bump into Obi Wan and Qui Gon. there are so many parallels that make (IMHO) the prequels better than people give them credit for. Anikin is a whiny little angsty bitch. Luke starts out as a whiny little angsty bitch. Palpatine has Anikin's mother tortured to lure Anikin to a trap. A situation where he would feel anger and walk the path of the dark side. Vader (Anikin) tortures Han Solo ("the didn't even ask any questions") to lure Luke into a trap, to take him down a path to the dark side, but doesn't work. I have the same reaction. I've rationalized it over the years that they slowed it down so the audience could follow. The jump, the light saber jumping into obiwan's hand and darth maul's reaction happen in a fraction of a second. The slice happens in the next fraction. But showing it that fast would have been confusing to the audience so they slowed it down so we could see everything happen. Palpatine trying to get Anakin to distrust the Jedi was obvious. Palpatine getting Anakin onto the Jedi council so that he would distrust them more wasn't obvious to me. Before I thought he was just trying to get someone he was turning into his guy onto the Council. I had never before realized that he was getting him onto the Council was how he was turning Anakin into his guy.  goddamnit man.... this is just too good. Its gotta be true, everything points to it (https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/ae/f0/d9/aef0d971a444e3d78cbfef14b4aca2d0.jpg) You should comment on this thread with all the backup evidence or made a part two thread. This is amazing. Holy shit. > Thanks. There could have been more, but I was hitting the 15,000 character limit on the post. FOR THE LOVE OF GOD PLEASE KEEP GIVING US MORE. This is golden and giving me a new appreciation of the prequels. The "Ring Theory" site made me want to rewatch them for one reason, mostly in terms of thematics. This theory makes me want to scrutinize them for every damn thing Jar Jar does. Wow. You have opened my eyes. I can imagine a scene in Ep II or III where JarJar whips out a lightsaber and a collective *gasp* reverberates throughout the audience and SW Universe together. It would have been such an awesome reveal and completely redeemed most, if not all, of the doubts and hates people had from the prequels. If what you say is true, it's a shame Lucas didn't have the balls to write it into II or III. Hopefully we can see such a reveal in December. Thanks for such an awesome post(s)! Man that cgi did not age well I hope he was. I'll hate the prequels less if I think Jar Jar is just *acting* foolish to hide his malicious intent! Agreed. I suspect this might be another thing like Darth Vader saying "No, I killed your father" -- making Jar Jar a mercenary was the cover-story George Lucas told the others to keep the truth about Jar Jar a secret. I don't think I've ever read a fan theory that makes as much sense as this one. If I had a time machine and could change one thing in Star Wars, it would no longer be to go back and remove Jar Jar, but to go back and tell Lucas to stick to his guns through the criticism and play the long con with Jar Jar, Sith Master. I feel like it could have painted an entirely different light on the movie. I wonder who opted for it to be rewritten. Another thing I wanted to show you to add to this theory.. I googled the concept description of Snoke and it says: >Snoke is not human. His head is shaped like a snake, a cobra but perhaps slightly flatter and wider. His eyes are pitch black and reptilian. His mouth is closed but sort of bulbous. You cannot see teeth. He has an angry sneer about him. also > Snoke looks like an old man who has a zombie-like appearance and is described as “almost risen from the dead.” Jar Jar's ear can definitely look like a cobra hood.. he has reptilian eyes and his mouth is bulbous. Also he would definitely be old and zombie-like by that time. If this turns out to be true I'm going to be mind blown to a vegetative state rofl I want to make a small website for this idea alone. SithMasterBinks.com or something. Just so this theory doesn't disappear in the myriad of threads between now and December. Whaddya say? **UPDATE:** I'm gonna build a small site, basically taking this info and crediting the OP. Do we like: 1. SithMasterBinks.com 2. DarthJarJar.com 3. SupremeLeaderBinks.com in another world some Disney executive that browses fansites(and reddit too) is waking from his slumber and scrolling through recent posts. He reads the original post and sometime next week there is an unfortunate production delay in the release of TFA and has been pushed to summer 2016 as they literally rewrite this theory into the next story. "Listen Ari, I know we are looking at more than half a billion initial loss for the studio but I am telling you this will redeem the entire franchise from the shit hole Lucas took it too with the prequel trilogy." Small point of contention. When a dictatorship falls, 99.9% of the time something worse fills the vacuum. The new power takes the reins of the old machinery and, unfortunately, becomes worse than the evil they tried to remove. If Star Wars were trying to make a realistic political film, Snoke would be a former rebellion leader. > why didn't the Empire collapse with Palpatine's death like we all assumed would have? (http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Ysanne_Isard) is why. And would also provide a way for DarthDarthBinks ^lol to stay active after the emperors death. And when you think about it, the 'behind the scenes puppet master' would obviously be deeply connected to the Imperial Intelligence Services. Jar Jar could have even been the one that convinced Isard to have her father executed in order to gain her own power. Controlling the emperor's concubine is a very effective way to control and keep track of the emperor. There's probably a whole bunch of stuff that can be linked to JarJar as a 'butterfly effect' machina concept.  Jar Jar is the Mule. Holy shit. *head explodes*  Oh shit this just totally reminded me of that. This make the theory even more plausible. It only stands for Jar Jar if force awakens is bad tho Jar Jar would have to gut a baby on screen for me to accept that he is truly the evil mastermind and overlord of the entire series. And, you know, Michael Jackson was originally supposed to play Jar Jar **EDIT:** And you know what, now that I think about it, the reason he ended up dropping out was because, as big a fan as Lucas was, they agreed that having MJ in the movie would be too distracting (for example, imagine the ratio of Stormtrooper costumes to red jackets on opening day). But what if he hadn't wanted such a big star to draw attention to the role itself? "Surely Michael Jackson is meant to play more than a buffoonish frog rabbit," people might have said. Man, this frog rabbit hole just goes deeper and deeper... Like a poem! "Jar Jar is the key to all of this," is a direct quote from George Lucas. BOOM. Physical evidence. Done son fffffffffuuuuu Well, I meant that in my story Jar Jar wouldnt be force sensitive. He could be force sensitive just enough that he is able to make those huge leaps he makes and he can sense the droids through the force like he did in the final battle. Thats why he just remains a senator. The Imperial Senate was around until shortly before the Battle of Yavin. Jar Jar could have remained a Senator until then. After, he might have been an advisor or a Grand Moff. Though Grand Moff seems unlikely considering how xenophobic the Empire seems to have been. However, the Emperor might have made an exception for a loyal ally. http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Imperial_Senate/Canon George Takei's official page just shared it on facebook. Congratulations. You made it. Holy crap, I remember on the (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ho16PDZGzDM) for TPM, one of the things he ranted about was how stupid the title is. What is "The Phantom Menace" that's lurking in the background the whole time? It's not Maul, it's not Palpatine, it's sure as shit not the Trade Federation, so then what was the title alluding to? This would make so much sense. Except, at Qui-Gon's funeral, Yoda and Windu (http://i.imgur.com/ySfwrPV.jpg). Nevertheless, who is standing just out of frame, in front of Palpatine in this shot, and right next to the new chancellor?? (http://i.imgur.com/KAEfo3K.jpg) Coincidence? edit: and next in line after Jar Jar? R2D2!!! Holy fuck. (http://youtu.be/qFu_dxwU-sk) Admit it, you are actually a writer for TFA and are "leaking" this to the community to gauge response. Can you imagine Binks bragging about his glory days in a normal voice, "I was right under their noses the whole time... a phantom menance..." I have to agree with you, that would have been simply brilliant! Now I will get so bummed out when/if it turns out that Jar Jar is actually not the evil mastermind after all. Yeah, my first thought as well. But we're always given the feeling that he fucked up because of clumsiness. They're not angry and fearful and don't point spears at you if you're clumsy, no matter what happened because of that. They laugh at you and put you in a cell so you can't break things anymore, right? Well, maybe Jar Jar acted more than just clumsy. Maybe he's a guy you don't want to be in one of your cells. He needs to keep some of the accent though. Make him sound like some sort of Voodoo nightmare. I know I'm like a month late, but (https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/236oks/iama_ahmed_best_actorwriterdirector_best_known/cgty4sd)... that voice actor says something quite relevant: >>How does it feel to have played one of the most unintentionally hated characters in movie history? >I like the fact that you said unintentional. He sounds amused, like, "oh yeah, _totally_ unintentional that he was hated." You should definitely tweet this thread to the voice actor. See what he says. That is huge to this thread. Yeah! I can totally see it being shot down, and a frustrated Lucas realizing that all the nonsense he put in episode 1 would never pay off. Knowing my friends and the other people who complained about episode 1, I don't think they would've liked that twist either. In hindsight it's fun to think about "What if", but at the time people were really worried that the prequels were gonna destroy star wars after episode 1's stupid obsession with explaining midochlorians and anakin being a 'chosen one'. Jedi jar jar probably would've been the tipping point for a lot of people. (as it was, seeing Yoda fighting like that infuriated a few of my friends, so I can only imagine) I'm just imagining Jar Jar's version of (https://youtu.be/YBLcxXR1PMw). That could have been awesome (but they'd have needed to do it perfectly). Bumbling fool turning into pure evil within a minute or two - maybe have his various "acts" and mannerisms break down as the scene went on. It would've been pretty horrifying and a wonderful twist. I guess it depends on how far you want to go. I fondly remember the first time I met Yoda in the movies. He was such an adorable, innocent-looking character. Even if he'd never ended up being the ultimate Jedi master, I still would've loved him as a kid. I think they wanted to replicate that with Binks, and they really just failed miserably. They probably wanted him to be really funny, endearing and adorable the same way Yoda was when he's stealing Luke's flashlight and bonking him on the head, but instead they made him this obnoxious presence that single-handedly makes episode 1 a significantly worse movie. I guess it still could've worked if episode 2 was done really, really well. But nobody had any love for Jar Jar after episode 1, so I could really easily see it turning into pure rage. "Oh come on, they're just trying to justify how awful he was in episode 1, this character is the worst and now he's IMPORTANT too? etc etc" Who knows, though. Maybe GL is a visionary master and he was completely willing to make one movie worse just to give audiences a mind-blowing twist in episode 2. I prefer it to the alternative, which is just that he thought Jar Jar was really really funny and everyone wanted to see lots of him in episode 1. :P Did you just beg me to alter the prequels to feature only Jar Jar Binks? (http://media.giphy.com/media/qlwnHTKCPeak0/giphy.gif)   The word you're looking for is "vindicated." Right. If you pay attention in Empire, a lot of Yoda's weird sentence construction drops when he outs himself as a Jedi. It makes sense that the same would happen with Jar Jar. what does that make them? > The sticking point I had was when Yoda got all crazy jumping around. That's because you first met yoda when he was almost at the end of his life, he was over 800 years old in ESB, and dies not long after. In the prequels, he's maybe 30 years younger, old by his standards, but still able to fight when needed. Yoda is repeatedly described as being one of the most powerful jedi, and a master swordsman. His mastery of the force was so strong that even in his last days he could lift an x-wing without breaking a sweat, so it's not outrageous to think he could still perform force-assisted jumps. "George, part of your fucking deal was to **NOT. SAY. ANYTHING!!!**" Well technically it's not in violation of the NDA unless we claim definitive insider knowledge. "Theorizing" anonymously is a gray area but probably not actionable anyway I've said too much Omg. JJ = Jar Jar. Jar Jar Abinks. Edit: or, JJ's A Binks. >Yes, let your hatred for JarJar flow through you. >I can feel your anger and fear. >You will come to the dark side. Give meesa dem bombad meany meany feelings...Yousa gonna come ovah Da Dahk Side, oh lordy > now I have to go watch TPM No one's ever said this before! This theory is gold. I appreciate a good cup of coffee. If a giant slug can keep a princess in chains and a bikini for funsies a fish guy can find Padme hot. Today has been a pivotal one in my life. I don't know what to believe anymore. this theory is too solid man, jar jar was intended to be the main baddie but that hate from stupid fans ruined it, "the fear makes you do things you regret" Well crap. I could see this imagine his voice going from lighthearted and goofy to this snakelike hiss almost. If Jar Jar really is a powerful Sith Lord then I'd say it would be entirely plausible that he actually speaks very differently, and puts on the accent in order to keep up the appearances of just being an ordinary (albeit clumsy) Gungan. If he can convince the entire Senate that democracy is for losers, he can Mind Trick all of the Gungans (that we've met, at least) into talking like he does in his disguise to make it more plausible. Yall are just lucky there's a character limit on self-posts, otherwise you'd still be reading. I didn't even mention how it's Jar Jar that sabotages the hyperdrive on the Queen's ship, forcing them to head toward Tatooine (where Jar Jar already knows The Chosen One lives). Notice that during their escape, Jar Jar is(http://gfycat.com/WealthyUntidyAmericanbittern). R2-D2 notices that this character is doing something suspicious, and gives him a well-deserved smack, and shakes its head as if to say, "Uh uh, don't F with my ship, buddy." Unfortunately, R2 is forced to head elsewhere and deal with outer hull damage, allowing Jar Jar to finish his dirty work. How wude, indeed. See, Jar Jar hates droids, and they hate Jar Jar. They are immune to his Mind Control powers and thus immediately recognize him as a foul threat. You see this throughout the movie (example: in Watto's shop, awakened Pit Droid immediately kicks Jar Jar in his Jar Jars). If you don't hear from me in over 72 hours, send help Classic Lumprawaro I mean, there are certainly solid story elements in the prequels. The problem is that they're just bad movies to watch. There's a lot of cringey stuff, dry dialogue, people reacting badly and robotically to CGI. They're poorly executed movies from a film-making perspective, and the core story is lost in the sea of everything else that is going on. I've tried to watch fan edits but usually give up pretty quickly because so many directorial choices were wrong that there aren't actually enough good scenes to make a movie no matter how you try to edit it. Especially because Jar Jar actually *is* the most important character in the first movie, and is absolutely painful to watch on screen. I would actually support the prequels being remade completely, different actors, different script, only keeping the core story elements. There is something there for sure, but pretty much none of it ended up on screen. This is my reasoning for it, it'd be too hard to comprehend how fast he actually pulls the move If this is right it would be the single greatest twist in film history. If you joined The 6th Sense and The Usual Suspects it wouldn't even come close. HOLY SHIT. This description also sounds somewhat like Darth Plague is. Maybe Darth Plagueis was reincarnated as Jar Jar Binks? This would come together perfectly with the theory described above... This image of Snoke Shows the similarities you describe http://imgur.com/CQe5Wi2 darthdarthbinks.com FTFY bombadsithlord.com I'd probably say have "Jar Jar" in the url somewhere, keep it simple. DarthJarJar.com is probably the best option of those three. :) I wouldn't even be mad. They better be doing exactly that. You're implying Luke. I liked /u/Lumpawarroo version a bit more tbh. The mule is easily one of my favorite villains, I just never saw him coming. If it's good, it'll stand for "bad motherfucker" ...Or kill one of the heroes of the original trilogy... NOOOOOOOOOOOOO It's so well put that it is terrifying The inevitable xenophobia that would result from using humans for the bulk of the Imperial forces would have been easily foreseen by Jar Jar. This is why he allowed Palpatine to become the "face" of the Empire (the much more intrinisically dangerous position) while he retreated into post-prequel hiding, where he could orchestrate events from the shadows. Right at the beginning of TPM, It's been right there all along: Obi-Wan Kenobi:" I have a bad feeling about this." Qui-Gon Jinn:" I don't sense anything." Obi-Wan Kenobi: "It's not about the mission, Master. It's something...elsewhere, elusive." Jar Jar Phantom =/= Hidden. Phantom 1. a ghost. 2. a figment of the imagination. 3. denoting a financial arrangement or transaction that has been invented for fraudulent purposes but that does not really exist. The "Phantom Menace" isn't a hidden menace that no one knows about. It is fraudulent or imagined threat that distracts from what is actually going on. The trade embargo on Naboo is the phantom menace - it is something that seems important, and catalyzes the story, but it was never the "real" threat. Sith love to fuck with this rule. Masters and apprentices are both always trying to find someone stronger than their current partner to overthrow them together. And if we're branching out from the movies, Sith like to have agents - not quite full Sith but powerful force users just the same. Perhaps Maul was merely an agent with a lot of potential and Palpy was testing him to see if he was ready to help him overthrow his master... Why would JarJar, just a General of the Gungan army, be next to Palpatine instead of Boss Nass? Also in the lore of the Sith, when the apprentice feels confident that they have grown more powerful than their master they will search for an apprentice of their own in secret to help overthrow their current master. Robot Chicken figured it out. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5qAKXK_aLeA&feature=youtu.be&t=1m26s) Just not quite brilliant enough unfortunately. If this was Lucas's intention, he failed to get the balance right and then didn't have the stones to see it through. I'm sure if he'd carried this to fruition in the second movie, he would have been completely forgiven and hailed a hero. Agreed. Clumsy and with a hate on for him? They're going to push him around and abuse him, not act like he's a legitimate threat for which they need weapons to deal with. edit: aaaaaand I just remembered this is 19 days old. Ahmed Best (Jar Jar's voice actor) does a great impression of what he thinks it would sound like. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UsTm3LhtGqA) He said that is is "great that after all these years it has been uncovered" They could have also done it in a Keyser Soze way. After his evil job is done, he gets away and his fake limping (clumsiness) fades away while the confidence, strenght and power comes back when nobody's looking. The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the galaxy that he was a non-threatening fool. I think Binks was always going to horrifying, but I definitely prefer the hypothetical evil Binks to the one we got It could definitely go either way. From this theory I'm getting that Lucas wanted you to dislike binks, but above all underestimate him as this goofy imbecile so the reveal is that much more shocking Oh... my god. What am I saying? You are a monster. Hahaha. I would literally mail you gold if I were capable of it. I certainly haven't seen it before this thread. I'm pretty sure this is oc, fresh off the press. Shh stop trying to make him feel dumb again. Let him have his moment. Thanks. Sorry for the Gallicism. Out of intellectual honesty, I'll let the original language in the post if you don't mind, and go back to my usual "read only" mode with respect to participation to online discussions. The made think, Yoda was seen as this all powerful being but originally shown to be a cute annoying alien with a poor sentence structure. If the prequels were to mirror that then it would make sense as to why Jar Jar speaks in such a manor. I'm imagining the accent stays but he drops the high pitch child voice, in my head it's something like an old New Orleans voodoo priest Or if he suddenly approaches the main character after kylo ren is defeated and pulls down his hood after casually force-slapping him and several others aside to get to kylo. "You've failed kylo, you failed vader, you failed palpatine, and more importantly-" *removes cowl* "You failed the dark side. not that your efforts really contributed much in the first place." C3P0: "why, you're that jar-jar fellow! but....how? why?" Binks:"That old name? I haven't heard that spoken in...many...many ages....but I do remember you, both you and that other droid-" *gestures to R2D2* "I never did like droids, I always tried to be as careful as I could to maintain the act- *flashbacks to various scenes involving jar-jar while he explains* "always i tripped up, despite that. Never once did I try to convince myself that I was superior of course, the slightest flicker of arrogance could spell my doom, and many were the times my grand act, an act that incited the rise of the empire, an act that killed qui gon and sent his apprentice into hiding while his own apprentice was firmly molded into a sith lord, my god the sheer amount of patience and discipline it took was almost nothing short of legendary. but you droids always saw through the act, you knew, very, very well that my behavior was suspicious, after all, how many of my kind use hand gestures so prominently?" *flashbacks to every moment when jar jar used hand gestures while he explains* "compared to common jedi, my use of the force to coerce people was always far more subtle and less distinct, but all the same I had moments where i was forced to show my skills-" *flashbacks to the jumps, various fights, etc* "worse still, sometimes I would get ahead of myself, or my true emotions would bleed out through my facade-" *flashbacks to him smirking at qui gon's funeral* "you cannot imagine how many years it took, and how frequently I berated myself for the slightest of breaks from that facade, even if it was inevitable for my survival, sometimes I would tell half truths just because I was young and arrogant, jedi tend to see through lies as well" *flashbacks to jar jar introducing himself with "Meesa called jar-jar"* "so many years of planning, so many years, and now I break the old facade, I break it, and ages upon ages of planning and scheming to mold the universe into a sith empire for two reasons! first, kylo ren's idiotic crusade in vader's name!" *kicks kylo's corpse* "brought far more attention to an empire's weakening grip than I care for! and finally...after investing so many years, after trying, time and time again to create a haven for the dark side, I am tired. I have used so many apprentices for this foolish endeavor, so many potential replacements unworthy to even breathe the same air as myself! to date, only one jedi even came close to me in terms of power, skill, and grace, and he died in his own bed an old toad. today I break my silence, today I lift the curtains over the act. it's been ages, and my efforts have molded and reshaped the universe. with all said and done, I've had my fun, created my dream, and it was found wanting. an empire fueled by the dark side and ruled by fear cannot hope to last when flickers of light such as you-" *points to the main character* "Yet remain to foil me. so here i am, to destroy you, do not mistake my attack for anything remotely resembling a potential success, I've no delusions of finding victory here. but make no mistake, I will at least take one jedi into that cold void with me. you pose a threat to my long term designs, none save for kylo ren could match you, and with him dead I can no longer afford to ignore the threat to the universe i've been working so hard to craft. so I shall be your opponent, and let it not be said that I have no honor, I have acknowledged you young man, and that is a dangerous thing indeed. I would give you my name, but let's be honest with ourselves, being called a "Jar jar binks" for so long clearly indicates how much I honestly value names!" *laughs* "so for now, call me....vader. it was the name palpatine gave his apprentice in my honor, it is the name I took when I first rose to prominence as a quiet sith lord, it is the name that has inspired terror in the world for many ages, a name so leavened with fear is a good name to die for when you are a sith, but before that-" *picks up kylo's lightsaber* "I'll be taking back my master's old lightsaber now, an unworthy apprentice like you won't be needing it." Absolutely nothing! Which is what you are about to become. Way late to this thread, but... The real problem is the prequels and the original trilogy have elements that would only make sense if they were a few centuries apart, rather than a few decades. The ship styles, Yoda being so spry, the forgotten old religion being a dominant force in galactic politics... If it wasn't through some absurd need for George to reuse old characters and do a Vader origin story, the rest of it could've fit in fairly well as a very early prequel. "But....Jar Jar is the key to all of this...." Dear George, If I find out you're the cause of this leak, I'm going to have lawyers crawling so far up your ass that you'll wish you were dead. Forever yours - J.J. While it's good in theory for redeeming the prequels etc. It would just be too much of a jump the shark moment. Overlord removes his helmet and its Jar Jar. Fans would get up and walk out of the theater. I fkn know man ive got 3 uni assignments due soon but I just have to rewatch these. Holes is holes That *could* just be for the whole degradation part. You know, if you capture the last survivor of a destroyed planet's nobility, why not parade her around in whore clothes, even if you don't find them attractive? I feel like Yoda after Palpatine have been revealed. We were blind. It's also never given why he was banished to the surface in the movie other than the assumption it was that he was clumsy. They don't talk like that, though. If you remember, they treat JarJar with disdain, and speak in a much less comical fashion. There's so much evidence for this. In Clone Wars, he's even mistaken for a Jedi. It's pretty obvious that he's just a non-Jedi wearing Jedi robes by the way he moves, but perhaps he's using his mind powers to influence the Separatists and gain the trust of Padme? He's also able to go beyond communication with sea animals - he can get them to do things when there is no easily visible benefit to them. Oh my god look at his yellow Sith eyes In the novel version of TPM, Jar Jar actually breaks a red astro droid. When the droids are signaled to go repair the ship, the one he sabotaged rolls straight into a wall and falls over. I'm buying this wholeheartedly. > there's a character limit on self-posts, otherwise you'd still be reading Dude! Please! That's what the comments are for! I'm really fascinated, and I'm not even a Star Wars fan! (came here from /r/DepthHub) First time I saw the movie I suspected Jar Jar being responsible for the damage hyperdrive. But then disregarded it. I love this amazing theory. Wow I really want to watch episode one again. How many theses and dissertations have you read? Because the first few paragraphs read like an abstract from an actual research paper. But seriously, I'd be interested in a full version of this. Oh God, he's dead I'd only support different actors if we keep Ewan McGregor. He IS young Obi-Wan in the minds of millions. He was the best character in the prequel trilogy and replacing him would ruin them for me and many others. Maybe jar jar is Darth plaguesis Wow... http://darth.wikia.com/wiki/Darth_Darth_Binks https://www.facebook.com/Darth-Darth-Binks-393245484085131/ I had to reread this three times before I stopped seeing "bombadshitlord.com" Oddly enough, the first one pulls up the most options. Either way, I'll get something up tomorrow and let you and everyone know. I'll definitely have a forum option where you can expand your idea. **UPDATE:** DarthJarJar.com secured. ~~It'll be up tomorrow.~~ IS UP! I'm still adding photos, but it's mostly done for now. **UPDATE 2:** To accompany the site, we've got the subreddit: /r/DarthJarJar I genuinely wasn't implying Luke. I don't think that would be a satisfying turn for the character, and I also don't think Luke is the political sort. Religious leader, monk, fighter, philosopher even. But political leader? Doesn't suit the character we've been given so far. > 'That, of course, is the great secret of the successful fool – that he is no fool at all.' ~~Isaac Asimov, Guide to Shakespeare. The Js are silent. Best effect would be Chewy. If he killed Chewy in front of Han. My god. Just posting this for visibility, the theory as posted by Brian Donohue half a year ago. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rL4w1yKQe8 **Yes, the first line from the main characters!!!** Soon afterwards, on Naboo, Palpatine is seen as a hologram projecting from Coruscant, thus indicating he was not present on Naboo. As far as we know, there were no other Force presences on Naboo at the time. Also, Jar Jar would not have suspected the two Jedi approaching until they were there, upon which time he sensed them as well and began to hide his own power. And sure, when they are running in the woods Jar Jar **just so happens to be in their way**. This is after Darth Sidious ordered them to invade, which the Jedi used as a ride to the planet surface. Note how surprised the TF commanders were to hear this order. Quite possibly, Darth Sidious' specific orders could have brought the Jedi down to a location where Jar Jar was waiting for them. Frankly, I think Jar Jar was mind-controlling Qui Gonn (the inferior Jedi of his apprentice) himself at times, for example when they chose Watto's junk shop instead of the many others in Mos Espa. Note that Qui Gonn doesn't sense presence at the beginning of the film, and that he also vouches for Jar Jar's "life debt" so they can bring Jar Jar along for no other reason than help navigating the planet's core, a task that Jar Jar does not directly help them with (though Qui Gonn seems to know the right way though the core...). Watched Ep. 1 last night to test the theory with this new perspective, and if the film-makers were clever, its all over the place, including the mind control of Qui Gonn. Now I want an admission from the writers that this theory is true, though they will likely never admit it to keep up the mystique and make us feel bad for hating Jar Jar. Explanation A (traditional new trilogy hate): "Its in the script!" Explanation B (Jar Jar = TPM): "Its Jar Jar's manipulation!" What if Jar Jar wasn't in cahoots with Palpatine, though? Jar Jar was simply aware of Palpatine's true intentions, and he knew that he couldn't face the Jedi Knights alone. So he set in motion the entire war, and did everything possible to have Order 66 executed. The Great Jedi Purge began, and the Jedi were all killed. After the destruction of Death Star II, Jar Jar saw opportunity to rise once more. George Lucas co-wrote this btw. God damn I forgot about this. Well played Source, please? That's Jedi mind control if I've ever seen it, look at the way he moved his hands in that gif  Meh...way too over-the-top and explainy. They'd never explain things to that degree in a Star Wars movie, because it makes it seem like a morning soap opera. I get what you're laying out in the scene, but it would have to be far more obtuse and ambiguous. But my Schwarz is bigger than yours The "forgotten old religion" part was really what bothered me. It wasn't that long ago, and there was no mention of a records purge or cultural-doctrine change (though it could be implied). Luke asking Obi-wan if he fought in the clone wars would be like some teenager asking a family friend if they fought in the first Iraq. I mean I *guess* if the Republic used clones and Jedi instead of volunteers or draftees there wouldn't be as much of an impact, but still. **"SOMEONE FOUND OUT GEORGE! I DONT KNOW WHO YOU TOLD BUT... STOP IT. STOP IT WITH THE WHOLE** but jar jar is the key derpderpderp **ITS NOT FUCKING FUNNY GEORGE!"** Fucking hell. When Lucas said "I think we went too far" he was referring to Jar Jar's goofiness and unlikability in the first movie. As in, we're not going to be able to use him as a villain because he's too believable, from a fan's perspective, as a buffoon. In the context of how he's portrayed in the film, he can no longer be used in the intended way going forward, and upon watching one of the later cuts of the movie, Lucas realized it. Jar Jar would have had to be a neutral character, rather than agressively unlikable, for this plan to work from an audience perspective. And Lucas knew it, which is why he bailed. > *People who haven't read the theory* would get up and walk out of the theater. I would be on the edge of my fucking seat! That would be too much for the viewer to piece together at the reveal. They could have JarJar become complacent or comfortable enough to gradually drop the act or show cracks in the act. Maybe they hit the audience in the face with the idea by having another character suspect JarJar explicitly. Maybe other characters struggle to make sense of the situation then the next scene is about JarJar or more obviously JarJar shows cracks in the act. They wouldn't just do a reveal out of nowhere and go to black -- audiences would feel trolled... But they could, if handled correctly, reveal Jar Jar subtlety where the viewers begin to guess who Snoke is. If they simply reveal the chosen one to be discovered and manipulated by the empire from the very start, the audience would immediately be thrown into a whirlwind and a guessing frenzy. The audience members search for characters who fit the hints, and the only character they can make sense of is Jar Jar. They think "no fucking way" and keep guessing in the back of their minds every time Snoke is shown or hinted at. Gradually with more clues it only reinforces Jar Jar. By then end of the movie the viewer can't stop thinking about Episode I and the absurdity, yet welcome plausibility of Jar Jar -- just as all of us felt reading the OP. Success. Let's be honest. Who gets banished for being clumsy? No one. Unless the clumsy is extremely catastrophic. This thread posits that nothing JarJar does is by accident or "luck", so whatever catastrophe his actions caused were entirely by design. Interesting. I actually think he takes "control" of Padme during the scene when Anakin is working on his pod racer. When he's "accidentally" zapped by the power arc and his hand gets stuck in the engine blades? Padme has to come "save" him... Little side theory, here: Jar Jar creates moments of feigned vulnerability or victimhood to lure in his most important thralls. It's when his target let's their mental guard down, trying to help someone else- this is the essence of evil: exploiting the good nature of people. He initially enthralls Qui-Gon when the Jedi "saves" him from being run over by the big droid transport. Note that after this moment, Qui-Gon will do *anything* Jar Jar suggests. He enthralls Obi-Wan when they have to "save" him from the water after their bongo falls over the waterfall ((http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bxdpNpIAYZg&t=1m21s). Funny how an aquatic creature who's already shown us that he's a professional acrobat has to be pulled from the water like a drowning victim, huh? He enthralls Anakin at the moment he "saves" him from Sebulba. Funny how Jar Jar just happened to spit a dead fish at the one market patron who just happens to be Anakin's rival, huh? That'll get the boy's attention- which was precisely the goal, of course. (http://i.imgur.com/geiFioR.png) Said nobody... ever. Until now. It actually made me think, "Fuck, I have to edit the intro to my thesis; it sucks." THANKS MAN, I GO TO REDDIT TO GET AWAY FROM THIS STUFF  Jar Jar is an "omnipissant". Brilliant The internet is faster than even Jedi reflexes. Can we have a regiment, similar to the 501st? I'm going to build a Jar Jar costume somehow, just for the movie premier. True adherents should be able to show off our Gungan attire. Let's buy them all and redirect them to the same place. They're all such great names Leia fits the bill better. Rebel leader and potential force user with immense political capital. Struggling with the fact that she can "MAKE" the other Senator's see the correct path to peace, or she can let the bureaucracy of a democracy lead them on and off that course she can see can see so clearly in the force. Would be an interesting new way to view the potential misuses of the force. Calm down there Satan Why do people always want Chewy to get killed? You and Patton Oswalt, man. Kill Han and have Chewy shit himself over fucking up his life debt Lmfao you can see the videos he liked with his channel. Stay classy Brian. Leaving us with episode 7... The most incredible, and potential spoiler-rific comment train on Reddit. Amazing. (https://twitter.com/ahmedbest). He could be trolling of course though. And we know from the movies that Force powers work through computer / TV monitors. I rember me and a friend once joked about this, while speculating about JarJar after the first movie... It wasn't triggered by anything though. We were just being sarcastic, just amused by the idea. We even threw in a few of the ideas mentioned here, in the loose, i.e the way he seems to be too pivotal for someone so stupid, and present at the major events. But it was just a joke Even when first reading this, I thought it was going to be a sort of sarcastic piss take, satirising fan theories in general... I'm really dumbfounded that this hasn't been noticed until now, so blinded we were by our hatred of Jar Jar. It's the perfect Sith disguise, it's masterful. I honestly believe /u/Lumpawarroo has discovered George's original intent. It was staring us in the face; literally, when that droid turns to look at the camera. I wish now, George had maintained true to his original vision. I can see why he may have been terrified of a fan boycott, though. In any event, if Abrams was never made aware of this, I hope he sees this, and appreciates the glory of it. fwiw, the population of the star wars galaxy is supposed to be around 100 quadrillion and there weren't that many Jedi. Maybe to most of the galaxy it was a forgotten old religion as opposed to our perspective. For some reason i read that in Quinton Tarintinos voice "Good. Good. Let the hate flow through you!" Then they will read the theory on the Internet when they get home and feel like they are not real Star Wars fans. They will go back watch it again. I also would be on the edge of my seat, smiling in the awesomeness of it all. Why? Darth Vader's reveal as Luke's father wasn't really telegraphed before the famous line No... it's impossible! And, later, when Padme is at her most uncertain, it's Jar Jar's mention of the "grand army" the Gungans have that convinces her to go back to Naboo, making himself the only person Padme knows who can get her an audience with the Gungan leadership. So, once again he makes himself essential to the movers and shakers. When I saw the title I was just gonna post the ThatsAPaddlin.jpeg bug now I have to give it to you, this is fantastic NO STOP WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU DOING Jesus Christ, you were waiting, weren't you? *Weren't you?* Just because its Legends now doesn't mean Disney can't go back and retroactively make some of Legends canon. I honestly think that the decision to remove Legends from canon is solely so Disney can select parts of Legends that they think isn't stupid and then make THAT canon. Let's be honest, pre-disney acquisition there was a TON of completely retarded shit that was canon. Some cool stuff, but I'd say way more incredibly stupid stuff. Ties in with the whole reason Gandalf never wanted the ring of power. >I would use this ring from a desire to do good... But through me, it would wield a power too great and terrible to imagine. The old story element of good intentions leading to a hero's downfall. I agree, and that would* definitely work with Big Z in KOTOR. But we don't have the same relationship with Chewy. He's just a big smart(?) space dog. And if there's one thing that only pure evil is capable of, it's killing puppies. Where, like Palpatine in A New Hope, Jar Jar would simply be mentioned vaguely. In the sequel we see his silhouette, and in the sequel to that, we finally face him. "*I will say this, it feels really good when the hidden meaning behind the work is seen. No matter how long it takes.*" I find your username disturbing in this context. No, No, No, No, let me ask you a question. When you came pulling in here, did you notice a sign out in front of my house that said "Dead Gungan Storage"? Did you notice a sign out in front of my house that said "Dead Gungan Storage"? You know WHY you didn't see that sign? 'Cause it ain't there, 'cause storing dead Gungans ain't my fucking business, that's why! Goodgood yousa let hate flow The general level of believability is higher for Vader and Luke. Vader is generally old enough to be Luke's father, Obi Wan is concerned Luke will turn out like Vader. A sudden reveal of JarJar without set-up would probably be taken as a joke or misdirection, IMO. I appreciate a good cup of coffee. Jar-Jar did the same thing with his grand army as Palpatine did with the clones! He influences the creation of an army, and then conveniently fabricates a conflict in which to use it, and he just so happens to be in control For that matter, how on earth do the Gungans even have an army capable of standing up for any time at all against a freaking interplanetary force? Not unless someone knew exactly what they'd need to hold out..... I'm deeply uncomfortable with how convincing this is. *waves hands* Why don't you go on Reddit, watch some videos, and forget all about this conversation? Jar Jar is basically Keyser Söze. They do two flashbacks highlighting him doing something malicious we didn't see in the prequels and it's done > Search your feelings. ~~You~~ Yousa know this to be true. FTFY It's so good that I fear anything else will be a disappointment. And as good as it may be, I can't see Disney (or any big franchise, really) turning what was *supposed* to be a beloved goofball into the Ultimate Evil. Now, maybe since he turned out to be such a hated character... there is hope! But I wouldn't put money on it. Yoosa knowin dissen be a realo tello (https://www.reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/16w0n2s/introducing_request_post_fridays/) We determine "Friday" as beginning at 12am Eastern Time (EST: UTC/GMT -5, EDT: UTC/GMT -4) *I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please (/message/compose/?to=/r/LifeProTips) if you have any questions or concerns.* That bit about fuel trims is some of the best used car advice I’ve EVER heard. One thing id add is to pay attention to the bulb check when you turn the key, make sure all the warning lights on the dash turn on. This is just to make sure they haven’t pulled any bulbs out for items that might not have set an engine code, like abs or airbags (this is really only for older, non CANBUS cars, so like 2007ish and older for most cars.) Thank you so much. I'm not even looking for a car but read through this. Happy New Year to you! So I don't just go around and kick all four tyres? Will you be my dad? This is a “protect yourself” tip: If you are buying a used car from a dealer or private seller, ask to see the title. If they won’t do that, ask to see a copy of the title with the previous owner info blacked out. It should be a red flag if they refuse or blackened out more than just the registered owner’s information. Why? First to make sure they actually have the title. When I was young and dumb, I was once burned by a licensed motorcycle dealer not having the title and lying about it. Although rare, some sellers don’t have their ducks in a row when selling a car and will sell the car before all of their documentation is completed. This can turn out really bad for you if the seller never gets you the title or registers it to you. In my case, the dealer failed to tell me it was a consignment sale, failed to give the owner the money from the sale, which meant the owner never gave the title to the dealer. The dealer then suddenly closed his business. It lead to a large lawsuit with many involved parties. Secondly, seeing the title will potentially allow you to see how many other dealers the car passed through before yours. In most states, dealers are supposed to record a running list of dealer transfers. Seeing a dealer-to-dealer transfer isn’t an automatic red flag. Dealers swap cars ALL THE TIME when a customer wants a certain car. Dealers also get inventory from auction ALL THE TIME (more on this later). What is a red flag is an incomplete log (such as not seeing your dealer logged on title’s running list) or several dealer-to-dealer transfers. Several transfers is a sign that it is a lemon that keeps getting passed around. Third, check the title to make sure the title isn’t “branded”, such as being a salvage car, flood car, scrap car, etc. You’ll also see if there is an outstanding lien. Run away and don’t look back if it’s a branded title unless the seller is honest about it and you know what you’re getting into. Buying a branded titled car is NOT a risk that an average person should venture into. Best case scenario? The car was totaled from simple cosmetic damage such as hail damage. Average case scenario? The car was in a crash in which the damage exceeded what the car was worth. Worst case scenario? The crashed car was fixed just barely enough to look good but still has a bent frame, has missing airbags, has unknown amounts of hidden mechanical damage, has severe electrical issues, etc. Bonus Info: As a dirty secret of the industry, it isn’t just low cost and questionable cars that get sent to auctions in modern times. Lease returns? The dealers have zero ownership of lease returns. It’s the leasing company that does. Most lease returns are sent to auction. Low mileage trade-in’s? Many get sent to auction by dealers that can’t easily sell the vehicle (example being a Jeep dealer that is flooded with passenger car trade-ins and wouldn’t be able to sell yet another one). A dealer can’t sell a normally good vehicle after a couple months for whatever dumb reason? It’s sent to auction. Brand new cars when a dealership goes out of business or when they just consolidates? They’re sent to auction. I think many people would be shocked that almost all dealerships heavily supplement their used car inventory from auctions, or buy from wholesalers that get them at auctions. Just assume the used car you’re looking at came from an auction unless the dealer came prove otherwise. Hint: Dealers hate saying it was an auction vehicle because of the stigma and will instead simply say it was a trade-in. Don’t believe it unless they prove it. They don’t consider it a lie because it was likely a trade-in at another dealer, but your dealer likely got it at auction. Final tip: NEVER, EVER BUY FROM A “BUY HERE, PAY HERE” DEALER. It’s a 99.9% chance they are a scum dealership catering to people with no credit or people that are completely clueless to interest rates and such. For those with no credit, you’re better off saving what you can and then posting a wanted ad on Craigslist for a cheap car. Great post, here’s my number one tip: Check the forum of the car you want to buy: There is a car forum for everything! They’ll often have stickies on what is a common problem for that model. Example is the Audi 2.0 has oil burning and timing chain stretch and tensioner failures. There will be specific instructions on how to check for these. Really surprised to not see this mentioned yet - OP this is great information and thank you for sharing. Some people, however, either won't have the time or the intestinal fortitude to check all of these things. For people falling into that camp, you can find a well reviewed and reputable master mechanic to perform a pre-purchase inspection. I had one done for my last purchase, and he checked the same things you mentioned, also found on one car some paint work I missed and the dealership didn't mention. He provided a PDF of everything when he was done also. He checked for sediment in the oil to help understand how well it has been maintained, and after doing this, I will do it every time I get a used car from here on out. Here's an example of one in the Denver area, where I'm from - http://sos-inspections.com/. He saved me some major money. Worth every penny to me.  Came for the used car advice, stayed for the WAA WAA WAA FWIW you should always plan on looking under the car. A flashlight (not your cell phone) and a piece of cardboard to lie on while you do this is critical. Look for oil stains. Look and smell for gasoline or coolant stains. Look to see if the various shields and covers are there. Check the condition of the exhaust system. And check to see if the catalytic Converter is there ! Finally you can (for free) use the “my Carfax” app and scan the VIN and get a quick maintenance report that way. Caution ... not all shops post data to CarFax. And totally Internet search forums on the make and model and year for issues. Look at technical service bulletins. Have your research done ahead of time and use that in negotiating a price. Mannnnn I just bought a car before Christmas and it had a bad radiator, alternator and some codes popped up later. I will be keeping all of this in mind next time I buy a car About step 1. Smart phones have apps that can link to bluetooth ODB scanners, this can provide real time feedback from the ECU. Some ECUs require a consistent 60MPH drive for 15 minutes or more for major codes to appear. The dealer could clear the codes and you may not catch it on short test drive tips. Edit: You can clear the codes yourself with a scanner and drive the car, also driving the car when it's warmed up is different too. Bluetooth ODB2 - 10-20 dollars. When buying a used, older car, buy on condition and service history, not mileage. A 5 year old car with 20k miles sounds great until you realise it means loads of short journeys where the engine, lubricants, oil and coolant has never got up to temperature properly. Many of these fluids act as lubricants or get thinner when fully up to temperature allowing them to penetrate small nooks and crannies better, keeping them working properly. A 5 year old car with 100k miles might seem like something to avoid like a dose of Chlamydia but chances are if it wasn’t a taxi it’s done mostly freeway/motorway miles where everything is warm and working well, it’s not particularly stressful on components like continuous stop/start town driving and as long as everything has been serviced and replaced on time may not be the bad decision. A correctly maintained car and engine should easily be capable of 100k miles or more. Check for any outstanding recalls (for my Ford Focus it’s Ford ETIS and I can check it online for example) and I’m sure other manufacturers have their own online checkers. These recalls can be minor or major and save thousands in repairs. Hey OP, can you recommend a good OBD for the average Joe? A brand or model? Hello and welcome to r/LifeProTips! Please help us decide if this post is a good fit for the subreddit by up or downvoting this comment. If you think that this is great advice to improve your life, please upvote. If you think this doesn't help you in any way, please downvote. If you don't care, leave it for the others to decide.  Thank you for those helpful tips ! I'd make a small correction as someone who sold cars for about 7 years. Buying from a dealer can be a good thing. It just depends what they offer with the vehicle in the way of warranty and maintenance. I'm not in the biz anymore and have no dog in the fight here. I just want you nice people to have a better idea of what you're doing when buying a car. I worked for a dealer that actually cared about our customers. What you want to do, is go to a dealer that sells new AND used cars. Not what we call the rock chip shops. Which, are the purely used car dealers. They buy their cars cheap as possible on trades or auctions, Jack the price up, you talk them down a thousand bucks, think you won, and theyre laughing all the way to the bank with your money. You just spent 6k on a car they bought for 3k! A respectable dealer will show you the INVOICE that they purchased the vehicle for. They are a business at the end of the day and aren't selling to you at the same price. They are going to make a profit, just not as much. You can ask the sales rep this question too. Are you guys a volume or gross profit store? Some dealers will have hundreds of run of the mill cars like your Malibus, camry, corolla, etc and ask for a small profit on a lot of vehicles. Others will carry the harder to find stuff, and go for a bigger profit in hopes you'll make a purchase based on emotion rather than logic. They don't have as many vehicles though and are usually easy to spot. One thing I can confidently say, in all my years doing that, I never saw someone get a warranty that eventually didn't pay for itself. At least get one that covers your power train. If you're buying a used car, it's probably safe to say you're not rolling in money like Scrooge Mcduck. A good way to know what that type covers, is the transmission, and anything that gets fed oil in the vehicle system. You can determine monthly payment pretty quickly using this little formula. For every thousand dollars that you finance, it will cost about $20 per month. If you finance $10k, you're payment will be right around $200 per month. Then, closer to $15-$19 on spectacular credit. So, if i see grandma and grandpa pull up in their 1996 Cadillac in mint condition, I can start to safely assume they have decent credit if not great, and spit out payments while we walk on the lot. Dealerships are set up from the minute you pull in, to the moment you're driving off in a new whip. As a successful car sales rep, I was looking at your car as you pull in. The trade appraise is almost meaningless to the customer. The real reason we do this, at least the ones actually selling, is to get information on you to build repoir. If I see dog hair all over the seats. Guess what I'm going to say when we talk numbers? Oh, looks like my girlfriend just text me to show me this cute thing my dog just did, check it out! Oh man, their not even part of the family, they are family! My little baby... Then the customer is like, oooooooooh! I have floofer too! Bitch, I know. I told my girlfriend to text me that to sell you a car. That's why you only see the picture and not my conversation. Another one, car seats were my favorite to see. The more of them the better. Now I know what the selling points are. We gotta get you in something sage for your babies! It just so happens that I'm going to convince you safe really means, a big ass, way over priced SUV. You deserve you know? Tell me, how hard do you work and slave away for your babies? We all know it's worth it, but what have you done for yourself lately? I think you deserve to have a safe, comfortable vehicle that you can be proud to drive. You can say, this is mine, and I deserve it! Your kids deserve a safe vehicle to ride in everyday too. You can't out a price on safety or gratification, you just can't. Let's get this thing cleaned up, and get you out of here in your new car? Big ass smile from me. The point of that is just to show you that cars sales reps, are probably the best at selling you things you don't need out of almost any other industry. The dealership is literally set up to do this. The entire process is a sham, and set up to get you to buy. BUT AND HOWEVER, don't shoot yourself in the foot by not going to a respected dealership in your area who has the car you want. Get a solid warranty on it and you'll be alright. The bigger the dealership, the more expendable money they have. The more expendable money they have, the more likely they'll help you out in a pinch. Some, definitely not all, want to do right by you so you come back again for the next car. That, and tell all of your friends how good of a job I did so go to him and no one else. I really tried to do right for people. Now, there were definitely people that treat you like shit just because you sell cars. If some of you knew how much money you can make selling cars, you'd drop out of college, and go do it. I cleared six figures my first year. It was up from that, and even got close to $225k one year. Thing is, say bye to your family. The dealership is now your home. You will spend at the minimum, 50 hours a week, and that's a short one. I got out because I was working ten to twelve hour days, six days a week, every week, and took one small five day vacation to fly to Florida for my brother's wedding. That was it for the six or seven years I did it. If you look up on glass door the average for a car sales rep. It is waaaaaaay off. The reason for this is because about 95% of people who try, fail in the first few months. This drags the average down to the mud. Look at what the top 10-20% are making because either you'll make that, or you won't be selling cars at all. You will get fired. Or, sick of the hours and lose all motivation to stay at it. It is a fucking grind, and why I don't do it anymore. Even at the top it was the most stressful job I have ever had. I eventually finished my degree and took a Monday through Friday, 9-5er. If you're young and want to make some money, read a few car sales books, put a suit and tie on, and go to your nearest dealer. It's commission. So, you'll either make them money. Or, waste your time at the dealership. If you don't start putting your chalks on the board in a few months, they'll just launch you as dead weight. You know what? It took me 3 dealerships before I found my niche and started making real money. In that industry, you must learn to persevere, never quit, and just keep going at all costs. You'll make it with that attitude, you have my word. Oh, I wanted to add this to help with negotiations and forget. So, it's out of place at the end here as I'm typing on my phone and not about to do that level of editing. Anyways, stick to the BLUEBOOK PRICE!!! That goes for buying a car, and trading yours out. It doesn't matter what the sticker says!!! I promise you this. First, if they won't show you the invoice, walk the fuck away immediately! I would show the invoice, and after that deal by asking the customer what they think a fair profit was for us. 5%? 10%? Did you have a number in mind? Obviously I'm not selling under invoice unless my manager says move the unit and sell it. Here's the invoice, do whatever you want, don't go under x number, if you sell it I'll give you x commission since the profit is gone. We have to do lot upkeep, wash the cars, change the oil as per manufacturer recommendations, etc. The cars start racking up money just sitting on the lot. If they sit for a year or more, it's time to move it. I'm rambling again... Here's the trap you don't want to get stuck in. I saw so many people pass up legit amazing deals simply because we refused to negotiate on them. We were rock bottom on it to start. A lot of people don't think they got a deal unless they got us to lower price. Here's the scenario. Dealer A has a car listsd for $10k, and it books out at $9.5k. Most people would rather go to dealer B where the car is listed for $13k. Then, talk them down $2k, and buy that same car for a full thousand dollars more, all because dealer A wouldn't haggle. So, watch out for this, and stick the BLUEBOOK. It exists for a reason, use it. If you're buying a car and need advice feel free to pm me. I still enjoy helping people make a good decision with their vehicle. It's the second biggest purchase most people will make. I really tried to not be the slime ball and get people what they wanted at a good price. I had no interest in ripping anyone off, and told the managers so when I started. I told them of I do this, I'm doing it right. I thrived on return customers and referrals. Word got out that there was actually a car salesman who was on the customers side and not just trying to make a ton of money. Well, unless you are a dick. In that case, I'm going to do what's called smash your fucking head. That's when I profit something stupid like $8k, and take home 30-40% of it. Was easy to do on dick heads with big trucks. I would just massage that ego. What, you're telling me you can't afford a $900 a month payment? I thought you were a millionaire when you pulled up! Stop lying to me, I know you have piles of money in your bank. Let's sign these papers and get you out of here and back to work at your construction company? Boom! I ALWAYS gave them multiple chances to be nicer. If they didn't, either I was making a bunch of money. Or, you won't buy it and go somewhere else. I'll just move on to the next. Seriously, pm me if you have a question. I really enjoy helping people get better deals on their cars. Saved my brother $5k on his new Subbie. Saved my buddy almost $10k on a new Toyota truck. They were trying to smash his head on the trade in. I told him to just get up and leave because he was at the wrong dealer. He did, got new numbers, haggled a bit, and saved $200 a month in car payment. I'll do it for you as well, free of charge. Tldr, I sold cars for quite a few years. Pm me if you need help buying one.   This is incredibly helpful. Thanks for putting this together. Edit: hey all, this guy deserves some upvotes for his post! I simplify this LPT by bringing my mechanic with me when I buy a used car. Awww why was it removed? I'm looking to get a new to me car soon and the dealers treat me like I'm just some dumb girl. Unlucky for them, I am smart enough to do research and read! Thank you for all of this info. I'm going to go teach the salesman somethin'! Wonderful. Time to save this and never look at it again. Aaaaaand it's gone Why was this deleted? I really wanted to read this!! Why was it removed? I didnt even get to read Why was it deleted? Would really like to read the post. The best advice in here is to not trust the person selling the car. I have heard so many people who will agree, but say that they have a particular sale person that isn’t that way. Not true. They all are. That is why they stay in the business around other like minded folks. Source: 8 years in the car biz in sales and management. VIN number check. There's a small online fee but this should give you a record of who has owned it and if it's been involved in any serious accidents. In CA its state law that any accidents be reported to the DMV. Wtf why was this post removed? I feel personally attacked by number eight lol. I never take immaculate care of the interior or exterior of my car, but the mechanical is always up to snuff. Oil changes at every interval so on and so forth. To me that one is a more minor thing. Here's an LPT for you OP: When sharing a youtube clip where the relevant part is later in the video, go to the point in the video where it starts, click share, and select "Start at" on the bottom left. Like so: (https://youtu.be/pOghpmVhVng?t=54) Or, you can just add ?t=54 to the end of the link before posting it, "54" being however many *seconds* in you want it to start. Glad to read comments on something that is apparently amazing but deleted. Very detailed and good writeup. The majority of readers, however, will just go for a quick tire kick, test drive, and then maybe pay someone else to "inspect" the car mechanically. This is incredibly informative. Unfortunately, I’m in the target audience - I know nothing about cars - and I almost feel I have to take a class to understand some of these tips. Especially #1 - I was lost! Thanks though. The post was an interesting read. Wow I wish I knew some of these tips when I bought my first few cars. Ended up with 3 POS Volvos from the same guy. Idiotic mistakes, really. I was a dumb kid though, lesson learned Thank you so much for the time and effort you've put into this! It's greatly appreciated. Great info! I thought I was pretty thorough in my inspections, but I learned a few more pointers from you. Thank you! You forgot : 1: DO NOT BUY a Jeep \ Dodge \ Chrysler product. This may get buried but I wanted to add tithe Bluetooth OBD2 scanners are quite excellent and will allow you to monitor many things in real time as well. I use Torque Pro, the app, and it allows custom polling rates for logging data. So you can add anything from throttle % to your Fuel trim values. It'll then save it in a file that can be emailed, opened, and then you can fully go through and really dig deep into how your car is running. It is really quite handy. I even used it with the cars speed sensor and my phone gps to pull up a second by second satellite map (an option from the xml file export) to show that the cop that stopped me and claimed I was speeding was incorrect. The timestamps didn't match up and I was actually going *under* the speedlimit (I was trying to find a place). Judge accepted the information and dismissed my ticket. (YMMV though). Bottom line they're cheap, easy to use, and very, very helpful. I just leave mine plugged in and it connects to my phone and starts logging when it starts. Sometimes I'll pull up a custom "dash" just to see how my vacuum, coolant, oil temps are without looking at an analog dial in your gauge cluster. Anyone screenshot this that they can provide a mirror? I’m about to drive to a dealership to buy a used car in like an hour and this post was removed lol. Help me out!  I have a question OP. So what fuel additives or some other additives I see on the shelves actually do something that makes them worth while? Most of this is good info. Some a bit misleading. Lemon law only affects new cars not used. Unless there is a expressly written warranty for the used car. Here is a used Car inspection checklist. (http://pop.h-cdn.co/assets/cm/15/06/54d1504cb1bd6_-_used-car-checklist.pdf) So the comments made this look like it was really useful and I’m about to buy a used car. Rip me I could have used this Saving for future car buying tips. Great post! This checklist Makes me want to get an electric car. TL;DR: Valuable information you actually should read! Donut media did a really good video on this a while back https://youtu.be/Z1eBlGcsSR8 I got fucked because I wasn't aware of point #1 he made here. Not 24 hours after I bought it, my 2006 Sienna is throwing P0420 and P0430 check engine codes, so I'm likely looking at failed SMOG next go around and thousands in parts and labor for a new catalytic converter. Here's a copy of the post (part 1) from https://snew.notabug.io/r/LifeProTips/comments/egs81p/lpt_some_tips_for_buying_a_used_car_for_people: I’m a mechanic/auto shop owner. I figured I’d put some stuff together for anyone interested in buying a used car but doesn’t know anything about cars. Obviously the best option is to take it to an auto shop to have it thoroughly inspected by a professional before you buy it. The key word here is BEFORE you buy it. I don’t know how many people I’ve had come to my shop for an inspection after they bought it….ugghh. The $150 or so you spend is worth not buying something that may have thousands of dollars of problems. But if that’s not an option, here are some tips to help keep you from buying a lemon: 1. Buy a cheap OBD scanner/reader. You don’t need to spend a lot, as they’ll all do what you need here. Practice using it on some cars. You don’t have to worry about reading and interpreting data. The main thing you want to do is check for codes in the engine and transmission ECUs. There should be no codes in either. If there are codes, there’s an issue. It may be minor, it may be major. Google it if you want, but not knowing what the codes mean, your best bet is to walk away. If your scanner is a better one, you can also check other modules for codes. However, it’s pretty common on newer cars, especially European, to find obscure codes in obscure modules. Normally they’re not an issue. Focus on the Engine and Transmission. ABS and SRS modules normally shouldn’t have codes lingering either. Use the scanner to check the monitors on the engine ECU. Monitors are a series of self checks that the ECU does on the engine. All applicable monitors should be set (passed/complete). They get reset when you clear the check engine light, or when you disconnect the battery (usually). If all of the monitors haven’t passed, then it’s quite likely the person selling it has reset the check engine light recently (may be trying to hide a problem), or there’s a problem that isn’t allowing the monitor to complete. Not a good sign. Walk away. 1. Crank the engine without starting it. What you want to do is listen to the engine during a continuous crank. On American cars and on Mazdas, this is easy, as they have what’s known as a Clear Flood Mode. You turn the key to the on position, wait a few seconds, depress the gas pedal all the way, then try to start it. The engine will crank away without starting for as long as you hold the key (or in the case of a push button start, until you hit the button again). If the engine starts, quickly let off the gas so you don’t revv up the engine too high and try it again. You’ll want to listen to it for a good 10 seconds or so. This is a very easy way to check compression on an engine. The main thing you hear when cranking an engine is the electric starter working to try and spin the engine. As a piston comes up and compresses the air, the starter has to work harder to spin the engine, and the speed/pitch of the starter changes. Once the piston comes back down, it’s easier to spin the engine, so the speed/pitch changes back, and then repeats as each consecutive piston moves up in the compression stroke. Every engine sounds different, but they all should have a very steady rhythmic starting noise. Kind of a WAAA WAAA WAAA WAAA WAAA. If one or more of the cylinders has low compression, you will hear the starter have an off-rhythmic sound that repeats. So for instance, if you have a 4 cylinder engine with one low compression cylinder, it would sound like WAAA WAAA WA WAAA WAAA WAAA WA WAAA WAAA WAAA WA WAAA etc. Every 4th pitch change will sound different than the other 3. For reference, here’s what a normal cranking sound should be: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6v0h_Ygqox0 Here’s what a low compression cylinder cranking sounds like. It’s at about :55 secs : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pOghpmVhVng If you listen closely, you’ll hear the unsteady rhythm. Loss of compression is usually piston rings, valves, or head gasket. All costly. If the engine sounds funny when cranking, walk away. If the car you’re looking at doesn’t have a clear flood mode, you can remove the fuel pump relay in the engine compartment fuse box, which turns off the fuel pump. Most cars have one, but some don’t. Some cars can be a real PITA to disable it from starting. Google the car you’re looking at with something like “YYYY Make Model clear flood” or “YYYY Make Model disable fuel pump” and see if there’s an easy way to achieve this. Practice this beforehand on cars you have access to if possible to tune your ear to the sound. You can also do this periodically on your own car to see if any problems are arising. 1. Check the fluids. All of the fluids will have minimum/maximum marks. If fluids are low, someone has not been maintaining the car well, or it has developed a leak. Not a good sign. When checking the engine oil, it should range from clear to black. If it looks like chocolate milkshake, there is a major problem. RUN AWAY. Remember to check the oil with the engine off and on level ground. Some new cars don’t have dipsticks (mainly European). If so, you’re SOL. Check the coolant in the reservoir. It should be green, pink, red, yellow, orange, blue, or purple, depending on manufacturer. If it’s rusty, walk away. Remove the radiator cap (only if the engine is cold) and look at the cap and in the radiator. If you see any rust or chunky/gritty brown stuff, walk away. If it’s just water, walk away (be careful here, Ford’s yellow coolant almost looks clear). Check the automatic transmission fluid. For the most part, it should be red, but sometimes amber or green. It may be black. That’s dirty. Not a deal breaker, but they haven’t been keeping up on maintenance. It should not smell burnt, though. That’s bad. If it looks like strawberry milkshake, that’s really bad. Also, remember that you should check the level on automatic transmissions while the engine is running in Park and after driving it and getting the transmission good and hot. The only exception is most Hondas. That’s checked after driving but with the engine off. Google it for the car you plan on looking at to make sure. Many new cars don’t have a transmission dipsticks, so again, you’re SOL there. 1. Start the engine and listen for any noises. The engine should be cold. If it’s at operating temperature, the seller may have warmed it up to hide some cold start engine noises. Be wary. If it makes any noises, walk away. 1. Look for maintenance records. If it has consistent oil change records at an oil change place, at least they’ve been changing the oil. Unfortunately, oil change places only check easy profitable stuff. It’s better than nothing, though. If the records are all at an independent shop, that’s better. Indy’s will usually do a pretty thorough check up on the car when servicing it. If it has all dealer records, that’s the holy grail. Dealers will find any nick nack that’s wrong and upsell it. They also commonly don’t do thorough diagnostics (this is an unfortunate effect of the way dealer shops operate). So if it needed repairs, on top of having new parts that needed replacing, it may have other new parts that it didn’t even need. Shitty Independents fall into the latter as well, but for different reasons. 1. Check that everything works on the car. Check the A/C, the heater, the windows, the locks, the mirrors, the head/parking/brake lights, etc. If the owner neglected to fix obvious problems, what else did they decide not to fix? 1. Look under the hood and look for any hokey work. Zip ties, tape, broken plastic pieces, a battery that can move around if you push on it, wires hanging, etc. If it looks like unprofessional work has been done on what you can see, how bad is what you can’t see? 1. How does the car look? Is it dirty, full of scratches, stained? If the owner cares so little about the interior/exterior, they probably have the same attitude towards the mechanical part of it. 1. Check the tires. Aside from general condition, do they all match? If all the tires are different, they’re cheap/broke, and have probably cheaped out on a lot more than just tires. Lay your hand flat on the tire tread and light feel around the tires. If you feel a repeating pattern of flat spots/dips, you have suspension problems. 1. Try and stay away from used car dealers. Used car dealers get the majority of their cars from auctions. Most cars that go to auction are sent there by someone that doesn’t want it, usually because there are problems. Not all, but most. New car dealers send trade-ins that are too old to put on their lot, and some of those are decent. However, the small used car dealers usually buy the bottom of the barrel cars at auction. They’ll fix the minimum needed with the cheapest parts possible to maximize profit. They’ll make it look pretty, though. Good chance you’re buying a polished turd. 1. Obviously, test drive the car. Drive it at different speeds up to highway speeds. Brake easy, brake hard. Find a crappy road or railroad tracks to drive over. Make sure there are no noises or vibrations. Get it good and warm. When you’re done, open the hood and take a good whiff. Make sure there are no strong smells (like burning fluids or other things). Look under the car and see if anything is dripping or the bottom of the engine is covered in fluids. Don’t be alarmed if you see water dripping under the car at about the same area as the base of the windshield/firewall. If the A/C or defroster was on, that is just condensate from the A/C system. Touch it. If it’s not oily and looks/feels like water, it should be OK. If you’re test driving a manual car, the clutch engagement point should be somewhere in the middle of the clutch pedal travel. If it’s right at the top or right at the bottom, clutch repairs are in the near future.      One time i went with my friend to buy a car. It was a late 90s bmw. It had a nice paint job and the interior was nice aswell. We took it for a test drive and after a while the guy called us to come back. It was looking good and my friend was ready to buy it. I accidently made a wrong turn somewhere and when i put it in reverse, it wouldnt move. The transmission was busted and the guy obviously was never going to mention it. One thing iv learned from buying used cars is that there is always something they arnt telling you about. ALWAYS. Great pointers, I had no idea that it was possible to check the fuel consumption figures like that. It's also worth pointing out that with the proliferation of electrics, this list changes a bit. There's obviously no engine to crank and the fuel consumption check will be at a minimum, quite different. Bookmarked. Thankyou Racefiend. The best advice is to have a car inspected by a trusted garage or service center. You need an objective opinion on the car. It is very easy to overlook problems because you are distracted by appearance items that really don't contribute to the reliability of the car. Also very easy to be too picky and pass over a good buy. Remember an older car with higher mileage is going to have a few issues, it is up to you to decide if you can live with them or fix them. Newer cars should have fewer issues, that's why they cost more. Higher mileage late model cars tend to be a better buy than low mileage older cars, in my opinion. Time affects the reliability of a car just as surely as maintenance and miles. Thoughts on places like carmax? 1) post used car for reasonable price 2) keep rejecting offers (asking for more money etc) until you find someone who does this 3) get free mechanical diagnosis without having to do anything, then reject offer /s Seriously though, if you come to buy my reasonably priced 10 year old motor and start fucking with my fuse box and shit then I'm probably gonna tell you to fuck off haha. Like yeah check fluids, run the car, whatever but if you're like ah your bank 1 fuel trim is 16% and you're trying to lowball me bc of it, I have no idea what the fuck that means in relation to my motor. If you're that interested, get a pro to do it or pay for a full service and diagnostics/MOT first, don't waste people's time trying to play mechanic I would love a similar post on the purchase of an EV /Tesla.  I’m a mechanic/auto shop owner. I figured I’d put some stuff together for anyone interested in buying a used car but doesn’t know anything about cars. Obviously the best option is to take it to an auto shop to have it thoroughly inspected by a professional before you buy it. The key word here is BEFORE you buy it. I don’t know how many people I’ve had come to my shop for an inspection after they bought it….ugghh. The $150 or so you spend is worth not buying something that may have thousands of dollars of problems. But if that’s not an option, here are some tips to help keep you from buying a lemon: 1. Buy a cheap OBD scanner/reader. You don’t need to spend a lot, as they’ll all do what you need here. Practice using it on some cars. You don’t have to worry about reading and interpreting data. The main thing you want to do is check for codes in the engine and transmission ECUs. There should be no codes in either. If there are codes, there’s an issue. It may be minor, it may be major. Google it if you want, but not knowing what the codes mean, your best bet is to walk away. If your scanner is a better one, you can also check other modules for codes. However, it’s pretty common on newer cars, especially European, to find obscure codes in obscure modules. Normally they’re not an issue. Focus on the Engine and Transmission. ABS and SRS modules normally shouldn’t have codes lingering either. Use the scanner to check the monitors on the engine ECU. Monitors are a series of self checks that the ECU does on the engine. All applicable monitors should be set (passed/complete). They get reset when you clear the check engine light, or when you disconnect the battery (usually). If all of the monitors haven’t passed, then it’s quite likely the person selling it has reset the check engine light recently (may be trying to hide a problem), or there’s a problem that isn’t allowing the monitor to complete. Not a good sign. Walk away. 1. Crank the engine without starting it. What you want to do is listen to the engine during a continuous crank. On American cars and on Mazdas, this is easy, as they have what’s known as a Clear Flood Mode. You turn the key to the on position, wait a few seconds, depress the gas pedal all the way, then try to start it. The engine will crank away without starting for as long as you hold the key (or in the case of a push button start, until you hit the button again). If the engine starts, quickly let off the gas so you don’t revv up the engine too high and try it again. You’ll want to listen to it for a good 10 seconds or so. This is a very easy way to check compression on an engine. The main thing you hear when cranking an engine is the electric starter working to try and spin the engine. As a piston comes up and compresses the air, the starter has to work harder to spin the engine, and the speed/pitch of the starter changes. Once the piston comes back down, it’s easier to spin the engine, so the speed/pitch changes back, and then repeats as each consecutive piston moves up in the compression stroke. Every engine sounds different, but they all should have a very steady rhythmic starting noise. Kind of a WAAA WAAA WAAA WAAA WAAA. If one or more of the cylinders has low compression, you will hear the starter have an off-rhythmic sound that repeats. So for instance, if you have a 4 cylinder engine with one low compression cylinder, it would sound like WAAA WAAA WA WAAA WAAA WAAA WA WAAA WAAA WAAA WA WAAA etc. Every 4th pitch change will sound different than the other 3. For reference, here’s what a normal cranking sound should be: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6v0h_Ygqox0 Here’s what a low compression cylinder cranking sounds like. It’s at about :55 secs :https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pOghpmVhVng If you listen closely, you’ll hear the unsteady rhythm. Loss of compression is usually piston rings, valves, or head gasket. All costly. If the engine sounds funny when cranking, walk away. If the car you’re looking at doesn’t have a clear flood mode, you can remove the fuel pump relay in the engine compartment fuse box, which turns off the fuel pump. Most cars have one, but some don’t. Some cars can be a real PITA to disable it from starting. Google the car you’re looking at with something like “YYYY Make Model clear flood” or “YYYY Make Model disable fuel pump” and see if there’s an easy way to achieve this. Practice this beforehand on cars you have access to if possible to tune your ear to the sound. You can also do this periodically on your own car to see if any problems are arising. 1. Check the fluids. All of the fluids will have minimum/maximum marks. If fluids are low, someone has not been maintaining the car well, or it has developed a leak. Not a good sign. When checking the engine oil, it should range from clear to black. If it looks like chocolate milkshake, there is a major problem. RUN AWAY. Remember to check the oil with the engine off and on level ground. Some new cars don’t have dipsticks (mainly European). If so, you’re SOL. Check the coolant in the reservoir. It should be green, pink, red, yellow, orange, blue, or purple, depending on manufacturer. If it’s rusty, walk away. Remove the radiator cap (only if the engine is cold) and look at the cap and in the radiator. If you see any rust or chunky/gritty brown stuff, walk away. If it’s just water, walk away (be careful here, Ford’s yellow coolant almost looks clear). Check the automatic transmission fluid. For the most part, it should be red, but sometimes amber or green. It may be black. That’s dirty. Not a deal breaker, but they haven’t been keeping up on maintenance. It should not smell burnt, though. That’s bad. If it looks like strawberry milkshake, that’s really bad. Also, remember that you should check the level on automatic transmissions while the engine is running in Park and after driving it and getting the transmission good and hot. The only exception is most Hondas. That’s checked after driving but with the engine off. Google it for the car you plan on looking at to make sure. Many new cars don’t have a transmission dipsticks, so again, you’re SOL there. 2. Start the engine and listen for any noises. The engine should be cold. If it’s at operating temperature, the seller may have warmed it up to hide some cold start engine noises. Be wary. If it makes any noises, walk away. 3. Look for maintenance records. If it has consistent oil change records at an oil change place, at least they’ve been changing the oil. Unfortunately, oil change places only check easy profitable stuff. It’s better than nothing, though. If the records are all at an independent shop, that’s better. Indy’s will usually do a pretty thorough check up on the car when servicing it. If it has all dealer records, that’s the holy grail. Dealers will find any nick nack that’s wrong and upsell it. They also commonly don’t do thorough diagnostics (this is an unfortunate effect of the way dealer shops operate). So if it needed repairs, on top of having new parts that needed replacing, it may have other new parts that it didn’t even need. Shitty Independents fall into the latter as well, but for different reasons. 4. Check that everything works on the car. Check the A/C, the heater, the windows, the locks, the mirrors, the head/parking/brake lights, etc. If the owner neglected to fix obvious problems, what else did they decide not to fix? 5. Look under the hood and look for any hokey work. Zip ties, tape, broken plastic pieces, a battery that can move around if you push on it, wires hanging, etc. If it looks like unprofessional work has been done on what you can see, how bad is what you can’t see? 6. How does the car look? Is it dirty, full of scratches, stained? If the owner cares so little about the interior/exterior, they probably have the same attitude towards the mechanical part of it. 7. Check the tires. Aside from general condition, do they all match? If all the tires are different, they’re cheap/broke, and have probably cheaped out on a lot more than just tires. Lay your hand flat on the tire tread and light feel around the tires. If you feel a repeating pattern of flat spots/dips, you have suspension problems. 8. Try and stay away from used car dealers. Used car dealers get the majority of their cars from auctions. Most cars that go to auction are sent there by someone that doesn’t want it, usually because there are problems. Not all, but most. New car dealers send trade-ins that are too old to put on their lot, and some of those are decent. However, the small used car dealers usually buy the bottom of the barrel cars at auction. They’ll fix the minimum needed with the cheapest parts possible to maximize profit. They’ll make it look pretty, though. Good chance you’re buying a polished turd. 9. Obviously, test drive the car. Drive it at different speeds up to highway speeds. Brake easy, brake hard. Find a crappy road or railroad tracks to drive over. Make sure there are no noises or vibrations. Get it good and warm. When you’re done, open the hood and take a good whiff. Make sure there are no strong smells (like burning fluids or other things). Look under the car and see if anything is dripping or the bottom of the engine is covered in fluids. Don’t be alarmed if you see water dripping under the car at about the same area as the base of the windshield/firewall. If the A/C or defroster was on, that is just condensate from the A/C system. Touch it. If it’s not oily and looks/feels like water, it should be OK. If you’re test driving a manual car, the clutch engagement point should be somewhere in the middle of the clutch pedal travel. If it’s right at the top or right at the bottom, clutch repairs are in the near future. Why is this removed? The post was removed. Is there any place where the post is preserved? Seriously why the fuck was this deleted :|  As someone who doesn't know cars, 90% of this post is completely in Chinese to me. Disconnect a fuel pump relay? Random acronyms everywhere? Practice/test these things on multiple other cars? Come on.. "Hey, random guy on craigslist, hold on for 3 hours while I google how to follow this reddit post" Thanks a lot for this post! :)) Great advice and a thorough list. Thank you for posting. Haven't had time to read it all yet but +1 for taking the time and effort. Nice one. Wow!! thank you man hope you have a wonderful new year! Amazing points that you brought up. Thank you! So informative! Thank you! Great write up, the perfect car buying guide. Everything I ever do you touched on. But I was a drivability guy for 12 years. Nice job man. The hero we all needed. Thank you! I’m saving up to buy my next car and I know some of these tips and learned more than a few more from your post. Awesome work my guy!! I feel like this post should be pinned Used Toyotas are fucking tanks. They will last for fucking ever if you change fluids appropriately. Very good read, although I live in Argentina and some points don't apply, the whole read was good and from now on I'm gonna have to be extra careful in that matter. Thank you very much! Thanks for this. Day late a dollar short for me. We bought a used equinox that had a recall that we missed by 1 week. Has about 110k miles on it and essentially needs a new engine, now we don't know what to do. You should add links to RepairPal and CarComplaints. Those are crazy good resources for research. Every used car will have problems but you can minimize your chances of have a critical problem by researching which models and gens of cars have major problems. For example 7th gen Honda Civic had a bad engine failure problem on the later models (06-07) iirc but the 8th gen Honda sorted it out if you had a date code after a certain date. That's how I found my 09 and I've had very very minimal problems. 08 Subaru Forester might be one of the most reliable cars on the road too. If I could recommend one used car it would be that, closely followed by my civic. What’s your experience w/carfax? Any tips for selling a car with serious problems? I’m talking a fuel rail repair that will cost the same as the KBB value of the car. The car drives a bit sluggishly but has fortunately passed inspection. Can’t keep it, not sure what my next steps should be. This is like the worst guide for people that don't know anything about cars lol It sounds like you do, and I do too, but I would not give this advice to someone like... my mom. Still should do all this with certified pre-owned from the make's dealership? Don’t forget to go behind the car and checkout brake lights or LED lights. I forgot to check those since it was broad daylight... 3 out of 4 were broken This is fantastic. Saved. Thank you for taking the time to do this.  Hey everyone here’s a way better lpt for first time car buyers: pay $75 and take the car to a mechanic you trust for a once over before buying it. If the current owner/dealer won’t let you do that you don’t want to buy from them anyway. Can I just pay you to come with me? This doesn't feel like tips for someone who knows nothing about cars. I feel exceptionally stupid atm. I don't think I should ever buy a used car. Wow. How generous and awesome of you to put together this long detailed list. Definitely will use it next time I purchase a new (err, used) car. Thank you! ☺️ TL;DR: Walk away. TL;DR: Walk away. Remember to ask about bringing the car to nearest service station if you want to buy a quite new one. The workers can easily check the electronics by plugging it in to their computer. Anyone have a copy of the post since it’s been removed? I read this before it was removed and thought it was very informative and helpful. Why? D: You've won our hearts and souls, now what's your location? Some of the things are a bit oversimplified. For instance, many cars have non-magnetic body panels (aluminum or plastic). Also, a hail dent that could not be pulled all the way is not the same as an accident. This is a good checklist for people who have some experience and skill, or maybe a first round quick check. For the average buyer, they really should consider paying for an independent pre-buy inspection if they are going used or third party. Can anybody tell me what this was? It seems I’m too late for the fun So, uh, what happened here that ended up in a removal? It got removed as I was reading it FFFFF!!! Another top post with blaring rewards removed. What the hell. Huh?! Thanks for putting all this together, but I think I'll just find myself a mechanic to date, lol How do you do #2 if it’s a push to start Really wish OBD codes were more in a... I'm not sure how to even say it, simple way for the layman to understand? It's crazy how many people see a catalyst efficiency bellow threshold code and just immediately jump to oh its my "Cadillac convertible " -eye roll- or the emissions code that comes with a bad or removed gas cap. They start replacing the canister purge valve or all kinds of shit "Alexa! How do I upvote something on reddit more than once?!?" Very very good advice here! As someone that friends turn to for car buying advice and help, this is all grade A content! MY only additional thing I'd say with this, if you're in an area where the roads are salted in the winter, check for undercarriage rust. Superficial rust is fine, but if bits of the frame are rotting, that is a yikes on bikes. I personally take a telescopic inspection mirror to look around the engine bay as sometimes used car lots will clean leaking oils off the engine block that you can easily see, but you might be able to tell if there's a fluid leak on a side that's not easily viewable. That, and it's always fun to see the look on the sales person's face of low key, "Is this guy for fucking real right now?" I am going to be honest... I didn't make it past bullet point 1, but I respect the shit out of you for taking the time to post this. The last two times I sold a car, I let the buyer (and their dad/wife or whomever came along with them as a defender) into my garage, which is neat and tidy, like my house. They later commented that if I kept my garage well, they assumed I also took acre of my vehicles and would not be have abused them. I'm also a mechanic and while I commend the noble nature of what you're posting here you've gone way too far. You're trying to tell people how to diagnose fuel trim issues. This is way beyond of the scope of the average car buyer. Life pro tip: Have a knowledgeable mechanic look over the car before you buy it. Don't show up with your new scanner and your Reddit bookmark for instructions thinking you'll be able to figure everything out. /r/RemindMeBot RemindMe! One Year For someone who loves cars but doesn't own any, most stuff went over my head. I plan to buy my first (used) car in the next six months and frankly your post made me want aware of so many things I was not aware of to check or to know. My plan was to pay a local mechanic a fee to go and check the car for me and ask the relevant questions. I would ask them to accompany me or just go by himself if they are ready to do that. idk if thats a good idea anymore. Well I got 6-8months to think, thanks for the tips. I'm saving this post and if it ever gets deleted I'll have to sue somebody. I'm not sure what for, but we'll cross that bridge when we get to it. Love it!! Thanks so much!! Will probably be burried but here is some comments on this: For Torque, check in the sensors for "Distance travelled since codes cleared". It should be an high value. This data indicate when the last trouble code got cleared. It may indicate that they are hiding a problem if the value is low. If you can, check before buying. Also, check for pending and history codes. Pending are faults that need to happen many times before being active. For example (that may not be true but shhh): excessive crank time. For some reasons, it can happen from time to time, so let's say the max crank time is 5 seconds. The first time it go pending. Will be automatically cleared after 3 successfull (within specs) starts. But if it don't clear and get triggered 3 times it goes active. This mean that there is most likelly a problem. For the crank test, if you can't get it to go in clear flood mode and just crank, open the hood fusebox, look up for the fuel pump fuse or relay, pull it out. Now you can safelly crank and it won't start. Cooling fluid. Whatever the color is, it should be of a good looking color. Yellow is really yellow. Green is really green. If the color look weird, it probably mean that an inapropriate coolant has been mixed or there is some contamination. Not good. Some engine noises on some models are normal, but walk away. For example, some fuel injectors are known to be noisy. But that should be about the only noise you can hear! For the tires, look at the threads of each tires. The wear should be even. If for example the inside of both front tires are worn out, that's most likelly an alignment issue, which may be the result of some worn out parts. It may not show up on the steering. Great advice, thanks! I am very thankful to you for your time and effort that you've invested in this. It is usefull AF and I really appreciate this. Probably going to summerize and write it down somewhere so I wll be prepared before going out there. This information probably worth more money than all these problems that I am going to run into. Thank you again for that, saved it for later. I’m the guy my friends and family call to look at their used cars before a purchase and I want to thank you for taking the time to post this information. I hate seeing people get scammed out of their hard earned money. One thing I'd add, from my own experience is this time I went for a second hand car, they wanted me to pay the deposit by cash or debit card. I wanted to pay by credit card, but they tried and tried to convince me that was a bad idea using phrases like, oh you'll pay interest on that, or wow you must like paying double if using a credit card. What you should know is this, if you pay by cash or debit card and the deal goes to shit, you ain't ever going to see that deposit again. If you pay the deposit by credit card then you are covered and in most cases you'll get that deposit back because car dealers don't want to go up against credit card companies, which is why they'll always try and get you to pay the deposit by cash or debit card. Only other thing I can think of if you so need to go to a dealer, always save up as much money in cash as possible. That way you hold something they want, so you are in a position to haggle. I've rocked up many a time with big wads of cash and haggled the fuck out the dealer, got money off, parking sensors fitted and work done to the paint work to secure the sale. Bless you for this post. If I would have seen this buying my first car from someone, I could have avoided a LOT of stress in the long run. Coming from someone who still doesn't know very much at all about cars, if you have questions and the person is hesitant to answer or defensive--nope the fuck out. Inspect all that you can and don't jump on the first running thing you find. I made this mistake and thankfully I bought a car in really good shape the second time around, but for first time buyers not buying from a dealership, know the issues you're signing up for with the car you buy. A pre-purchase inspection saved me a ton of problems on a 2017 VW GTI with < 5000 miles. The car looked pristine but something felt a little off and since it was getting dark, I told dude I’d be back the next day. Have to add that the sales guy kept saying they’d done a ppi and everything looked GOOD! Next day rolls around and I sneak the car out for an ‘extended test drive’ and head straight to the VW dealer a block away for a PPI. Glad I did! There weren’t any check engine lights on the dash but the codes pulled up by the ppi were 3-4 pages deep! The battery on this GTI had burst and had corroded whatever was around it as it leaked out to the ground. The car looked like shit once on a lift. Took the car back and left without a word. If you bought a White 2017 VW GTI 6spd Plaid Interior in 2018 from a Toyota dealer in DFW you got fucked. R u saying that lemons r bad...? I’m going to add a little bit more info: After the test drive when the car is at full operating temp turn it off and start it back up after a few secs. If it has trouble starting or doesn’t start don’t touch it. Further if you have a little magnet you can put it in places where the body line gaps are questionable (Meaning a repair was made possibly from an accident). If the magnet doesn’t stick it means a repair was done or the body panel is aluminum. (You can also knock on the car with your hand of a questionable area and if the pitch changes the metal isn’t consistent and a repair was made). Having a car repaired is fine but a lot of shady repairs over rust are made and cars can rust from the inside out of this without you ever knowing. One more thing which is the most important imo is on a test drive don’t be scared to give it some gas. It’s super important to have power consistently so beat on it a bit. If the vehicle feels sluggish it might be down a cylinder for some reason. Good luck with your purchases! I’ve bought only one car from the dealer and I’ll never do it again, buying cheap older used cars is better for the environment and also waayy better for the wallet. I don't know if you'll see my comment in the zillions ppl have made but many thx for all the time & trouble u went to. You have surely saved a lot of folks a lot of $$ and aggravation. We only buy used cars, we usually take to a mechanic (not always bc my hubby put himself thru college buying cars at the auction & reselling) but you present a lot of good ideas for an initial screen when u test drive. I saved your write up to Google drive. You should write a book! You sir, deserve every single upvote and award you got for putting out such a comprehensive guide on buying used cars One of the most helpful pieces of information i've read on reddit so far. Thank you. As someone who is looking at buying a car in the near future, this thread was very timely. Thank you for sharing your insights, OP. Saving this forever thanks! Thank you so much, an absolute lifesaver. I’ve been so worried that I was gonna get scammed (just started looking for my first car), I saved this and I read through all of it thank you 🙏🏻 My father in-law who's also a mechanic: *Starts car* *Gets out walks around & checks for rust/damage* *Gets in and pulls onto the road* *FUCKING FLOORS IT* "WTF ARE YOU DOING!?" "Well, if something is gonna break it's gonna do it right now." I didn’t understand 90% of what you said but thank you All great tips!! I can only add: Carfax And: Bring your own financing. Get pre-approved at your bank or better yet join a Credit Union for the best rates. Used car dealers make the most money on in house financing. ALSO: don't buy the insurance, again, the dealer will charge you 2500 for what the banks charge 300. PLUS: with your own financing, you are basically buying in cash from a dealer who SHOULD give you a better price for cash. That's so fucking grimey and underhanded. How people can just scam other people like that. I got ripped on an 1980's Toyota. Only had like 100K miles on it. Turns out someone rolled the milage back, but I didnt see the signs until I tried to sell it and someone schooled me. Some lessons are learned the hard way... On the older odometers that aren't digital, check for crooked numbers. They should all be straight. Also, fingerprints on the inside of the dash covering can be a bad sign. The brake pedal in my truck was worn down to bare metal in one spot. That took way more than 100K miles to do. That was another sign. Digital odometers can be rolled back too. Not sure how to determine the evidence on them besides looking at shop records for weird milage fluctuations over time. I don't know if all cars will, but my 06 honda had an ABS sensor malfunction and it turned on the ABS light, the Traction Control light, and the Check Engine light. If these 3 lights are on it would be a dead giveaway that there's something wrong with the ABS sensors (I believe traction control uses the same sensors).  You're welcome. Happy new year! I am a couple of years from buying a car but I did the same. Everytime I've bought a used car, I've taken it on a test drive straight from the dealer to a mechanic and had them give it a full inspection / test. It's a few hundred dollars, but it'll save you a few thousand on the wrong purchase. If they WON'T let you take the car to get an full vehicle inspection done, walk away. Most will at the smaller used car dealerships. At the end of the day they're trying to sell good cars for a profit, not take people for suckers. You can, but you might be adding your own butt to that list after you buy it! Of course not! You should also kick the spare... Don’t forget to slap the hood NO tire kickers -- i know what i got. Gotta kick the fifth too https://youtu.be/VunjAXgLXng WOULD YA LOOK AT THAT! LOOK AT IT! “Yup... that’s a car alright” My husband and I were getting a new car and debating trading in our old one or selling it. We ended up trading it in (even though we COULDA asked thousands more) simply because my husband didn’t want to deal with people “test driving” it, and kicking the tires 😂 It was a Mini Clubman, so there would have been many “test drives” 🙄 How good are you at mowing the lawn? r/internetparents I have received way too much gold and stuff on this post and I'm going to share it with you. This is a really good post. I completely forgot to talk about titles. And yes, Buy Here Pay Here places should be burned to the ground. They don't even have to worry about buying inventory since they replenish their inventory by repossessing cars from people they knew we're going to miss payments on the ridiculous loans. I would like to append my post with your post so it gets more visibility if that is okay with you. I will give you credit of course. This is a great tip for purchasing anything of value really. New or 2nd hand. I found out the hard way that if the car's forums are dead it will sooner rather than later be too expensive to maintain. I'm looking at you, Lexus. Best tip here honestly. Other people that work on these cars will know what is good and bad about them Yes this should always be the first option if it's possible. How much did this cost you roughly? How does this actually happen? The dealership let's the mechanic check out the car for an hour on the lot? Or they actually let you take it to the mechanic? Yeah, I got about a third of the way through reading this before I realized that I had no idea what any of it meant and came to the conclusion that I will forever just hire a mechanic... Upvoted for visibility. It can be hard to put a vehicle through all these tests, especially of you're dealing with someone who knows they're trying to sell a polished turd, so this option makes a lot of sense. Just booked a prepurchase inspection for a used car I looked at yesterday. OP is amazing for making this post but I do not feel confident enough checking a lot of the things on the list myself. Fingers crossed that the car is okay 🤞  Is this something you can do with used car dealerships? I don't think they would let you take it off the lot for that would they. Like yeah true all these info seems nice but really? For someone who knows nothing about cars? This actually discourages me from buying used ones like ever unless I'm looking to *really* get into cars. I'd rather think I can never buy one if I'd *have to* know all of that Why yes I'd certainly just pay to have someone do it for me plus they're 1000% more expert That and the magnet truck can't help on plastic body panels. You def won't get anything to stick to the bootlid of my car! If you can check the bolts holding the panels in place, especially in the engine bay. On European cars the bolts will be marked with paint as will the panel. If the paint doesn’t match up, the panel has been replaced. How expensive is minor paint work supposed to be? I have a couple scratches on my front bumper I have been neglecting because I’m worried it’ll rack up a $800 bill for something I don’t care too much about. You should also get under the hood, with the engine running, and listen for any **fltumpfltlumpftlump** sounds of belts wearing out. Turn it off and visually inspect the belts too. On older cars, it's imperative to check the cambelt has been replaced regularly. All good tips as well. Thanks for adding them. Fleet vehicles and rental cars frequently won't have Carfax reports because they don't file insurance claims and they do their own in house repairs. There's one particular website that is essentially a database that records the most common issues for particular models of particular years. Great tool for seeing what possible areas you'll want to double check or be more thorough on. edit: the specific website I had in mind was carcomplaints.com, but there seems to be plenty of other complaint aggregation sites. It's not an official site and while I wouldn't trust consumer reports, if a single specific year of a model has 50+ transmission related complaints, I'd be pretty thorough checking the transmission of a used model that I would be looking at. Additionally, looking at a model over the years can give you a general sense of trends of issues they have. I'm not saying don't check anything else except for the complaints, just saying that a couple quick google searches can alert you to the most common problem areas and you should pay especially close attention there. I learned from a local shop that they're actually charged to upload to Carfax, so they don't do it. Also, this won't show you stuff the owner has done such as oil changes. What’s wrong with a cell in phone. A light is a light. Wouldn't you know if the catalytic converter wasn't there when you test drive it? I got mine stolen once and the car sounded like a Harley when it started. Also make sure to look for rust while under there. What's wrong with a cellphone? My cellphone light is better than many cheapo flashlights. A couple of other real old school checks: With the car cold, pull the oil fill cap. If there is milky brown substance on the inside of the cap, the car either has a blown head gasket or a crack in the intake manifold. Walk away. It’s not worth your time. After running the car, wait for the engine and radiator to cool and then pull the radiator cap. If there are bubbles in the coolant, the car has a blown head gasket. Walk away. Pull the oil dipstick. If it smells like gasoline or seems especially thin, the engine has bad rings. Walk away. Always, always, always get under the car. Except for water (condensation from the AC), there are NO NORMAL LEAKS. Source: grew up in Detroit driving horribly decrepit heaps. Learned to spot mechanically sound cars. I stan Lincoln Town Cars. tryna fit under one of those isn't happening without a car lift or removing a few ribs The internet search saved me from a car that I thought was maybe pulling to the left. Dealer told me that was impossible, no way, it’s all aligned. Did a little googling and a forum full of people were complaining that the make and model I just drove keeps pulling to the left no matter what they try. Living in Pennsylvania, salt can do some real damage to the undercarriage too You are out of your mind Dam. Those can be reasonably cheap to fix though. Depending how bad the radiator is you can get extra life out of them. If your alternator is going tho, buy jumper cables and maybe a battery charger NOW and keep them in your car. Keeping a spare battery isn't a bad idea too. I drove a car with a broken alternator for six months by charging the battery overnight every couple of days, and asking strangers to jump start it occasionally. Of course, no radio, and you can't use your lights or wipers for long periods of time. Not recommended. That explains why the last guy who sold me a car wouldn't let me test drive it for more than a couple miles. Welp. Go to the monitors view and it will tell you miles/run time since the codes were last cleared This is very important! A friend of mine had to travel through Europe all year round and put wel over 100k km a year on the car but it was wel maintained, had a history of all the oil and air filter changes. It once had flat tire and they replaced the whole wheel because it had some slight curb damage. Than you have my uncle and aunt who bought almost the same exact car but only used it to drive the kids to school and to get groceries. They would let the clutch slip, floor the car while the engine is still cold and didn't care for speed bumps, potholes and sidewalks. After 2 years you had a well maintained 240k km car which is hard to sell because of the milage and a 20k km car with hidden costs but with low milage so people would be more interested 100k miles shouldn't scare anyone anymore, that's a bit outdated in my opinion. Every car my husband and i have ever owned has made it over 200k. We live in a rural area and realllllyyy put miles on our vehicles. We have had 2 Chevy trucks, both 3/4 ton gas, one was traded in at about 200k, the one I drive now has over 200k. We have a 3/4 ton '97 diesel Ford farm truck that has nearly 400k...that engine I dont think will ever die and there's a reason people love them though. But we have also had an Isuzu Rodeo that had about 225k when we sold it, a Ford 150 straight 6 with over 250k when we sold it, my sons '08 F150 is getting real close to 200k and has had zero issues. Our "youngest" car belongs to my daughter, '13 Ford Mustang v6, that "only " has 115k on it. All haven't caused us any trouble at all. But the most amazing of all is my husband's work car...a 2008 Kia Optima we bought new that just rolled over 640k miles (not a typo). Yes, original engine. Maybe I'm not the best example because our vehicles service history sucks...they don't really have one. Honestly, we are hard on all our vehicles and don't baby them. My husband did used to be a mechanic, but that doesn't mean anything because he rarely has time (obviously with the amount of miles he drives) to do tune ups or mess with any of them. And he won't pay someone else to change oil so they are lucky to get oil changes....sometimes 10k miles goes by before they do. But point is, people act like a car has the plague once it has 100k, and they are scared to drive their cars. But like you said, sometimes not driving them does more harm than good. They were designed to be driven and more often than not you are helping them stay in good shape by doing so.  I had a buddy of mine pick a F-150 with 350K on the clock over a slightly older one with half the miles because the latter was a fleet vehicle that was in far better condition overall. The 4.6L was in both, but the suspension and transmission felt totally shit in the one with less miles. Transmission shook and the steering pulled to the right. The one with far more miles drives smooth and the engine doesn't sound like it's worn at all. Not OP, but about any should do it. Even the knock-off brands that are like $20 would give you the right data. They all communicate with a protocol the engine requires, so the cheapness means slower update speed (1-2 seconds versus more than once per second) and lesser components on the device. You’ll get the same information out of it. Get a $15 Bluetooth OBD-II adapter from Amazon and install the Torque app on your phone. It's cheaper than a scanner and will do everything you need and more. For example, you can dash mount your phone or a tablet, and turn it into a space for extra gauges for your car; like an MPG or Distance to Empty gauge, transmission temp, intake manifold pressure/temp, 0-60 times, average speed, percentage of city/highway driving, real-time horsepower/torque estimates, and then some. It's great for a statistics geek like me. Unfortunately, I cannot. All of my scanners are high-end since I have to use them professionally. I will say this: I have an expensive Snap-On scanner. It works pretty well. I also have a cheaper Autel brand scanner. There are many times that I go to use the Snap-On scanner and it does not give me access to the data or functions that I want. I will then grab the Autel and it has yet to fail me. The menu system on the Autel is a little bit more convoluted and slower to boot up so I usually grab the snap on 1st. Autel does make some reasonably priced scanners so I would assume that they should be good as well. This app developer has very nice tips on how to choose a good adapter: https://www.carscanner.info/choosing-obdii-adapter/  You're welcome!  You're welcome. And I don't need no upvotes. Just want to keep people from wasting money. That's a good alternative as well. And if they're willing to go with you, that's a good mechanic. I've done this many times but not as the one buying the car. One of the things I have trouble getting across is that when you buy a 10 year old car, don't even look at a Caravan, Mitsubishi, etc. Stay with high rated cars if they've already got some miles on them. Another thing to look for is mismatching tires. It means something is wrong and it's wearing out one tire so they had to replace it. That's good. Always do your research before any major expense. Unfortunately, most people don't, and that's what they're betting on . Also, after telling the salesman their car is a POS, kick him in the balls and then skip your way out of the dealership Are you me? LOL Right? What's up with that? Just go here https://www.removeddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/egs81p/lpt_some_tips_for_buying_a_used_car_for_people/?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share You’re spot on. Even the exceptional folks in sales that I really love are still in sales. Even if they remember your family’s car purchases from 20 years ago without having to look it up, and know what they did for a living and their life story, *they still want to sell you a car*. Some may be honest and up front with you, and some may not badger you to buy if you have hesitations, but I don’t know I’ve ever met someone who survives in sales that won’t agree to sell you a car you ask for, good or bad for you. It’s not an indictment against them... I don’t judge mechanics for wanting to fix things that are broken or custodians for wanting to clean things, after all. I recently bought a car with all the paperwork since the day it was built 14 years ago, including original receipts There's still problems, luckily not major ones If over a certain damage amount cost yes. Even then if you do the repairs etc yourself it's never reported. Never fully trust a vin report from any online vendor like carfax. Sometimes damage reports don’t get reported for some reason. I had to have a quarter panel replaced on my car, about $3.5k of damage, but it never showed up on the carfax. But my tire rotations and oil changes show up just fine. Always get your car checked by a trusted mechanic before buying a used car! There are always exceptions. But I've seen a ton of cars come through my shop. Way more often than not, if the car looks like trash on the inside and outside, the same is true for the Mechanicals. Sorry you got lumped into that group Heres a LPT to your LPT for OP: If you add ?t=XXmXXs instead you get the exact time stamp with minutes and seconds. This is useful for longer videos so you dont have to break 18 min and 34 seconds into seconds Thanks RamzFanz, I'll use that next time. Or right click the video and choose "Copy video URL at current time". Use a reddit backup/parody site like (https://snew.notabug.io/r/all) here is a link to the post: https://snew.notabug.io/r/LifeProTips/comments/egs81p/lpt_some_tips_for_buying_a_used_car_for_people/ Yeah no kidding. The real LPT is to build the cost of a couple of pre-purchase inspections into your budget. I’ve had a few done at different places and the price is typically around $75. If you don’t know what an OBD scanner is just skip OP’s post and take the car to a shop. If the seller won’t let you there’s no bigger red flag and you should GTFO. I tried to explain it as Layman as I could, sorry. That's why I said buy the scanner and practice with it. It's really only a few clicks to see if a car has codes on most scanners. Follow the instructions and do it once or twice and you'll have it down Why would you buy 3 cars from the same guy after the first one was a POS? I hear ya! My first car was a 92 accord i bought from a guy for $700. The hood was dented and he told me he hit it with his tractor while clearing the driveway. Fair enough. Two days later i got pulled over for an alleged hit and run. I was able to clear it up by showing when i had bought the car, but man did i ever shit when they told me that You're welcome. Hopefully it helps you out. A lot of this stuff can be done routinely on the car you already own too! Glad I could help! Man I get the stigma, but i had a wrangler for 9 years and never had any major issues with it. Maybe I just got lucky? It was also a complete base model so less potential electrical issues Great tip, leaving it plugged in! (https://snew.notabug.io/r/LifeProTips/comments/egs81p/lpt_some_tips_for_buying_a_used_car_for_people/?sort=new) So long and thanks for all the fish! -- mass edited with redact.dev Some of them have been shown to help. However, they work slowly, so they're not a quick fix for an existing problem, nor are they very beneficial if used infrequently. Many of your top tier gas providers like Chevron and Shell already put additives in their fuel to help keep injectors clean and valves/pistons clear of excess deposits. I don't use additives in my cars or customer cars, if that helps. I think the tire issue should get a break as well. If they fit and work, who cares if they're the same brand? I don't think choosing not to throw unnecessary money at the car is an indicator of poor maintenance decisions. I'd rather spend the 20 50 90 dollars on actual care or gas or other life Buying generic and using coupons doesn't automatically mean you cheap out and avoid decent food/medication/products. Hey man just go here https://www.removeddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/egs81p/lpt_some_tips_for_buying_a_used_car_for_people/?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share >flashlight (not your cell phone) and a piece of cardboard to lie on while you do this is critical. > >Look for oil stains. Look and smell for gasoline or coolant stains. Look to see if the various shields and covers are there. Check the condition of the exhaust system. And check to see if the catalytic Converter is there ! Ctrl+P Print as PDF Desktop>Reddit>BestUsedCarTips.pdf Not sure how tongue-in-cheek you're being, but I'll use this opportunity to say that I'm 2 years into driving my Chevy Bolt and I love it. I've put 34k miles on it (commute \~100 mi a day). Sure, I've saved around $3k in gas money (eaten up by the higher cost of a new car), but the lack of stopping for gas twice a week on my way home has saved me about 70 hours of my life in the last 2 years. No oil changes. The ride on the freeway is much quieter, which helps with my sanity for the long commute. I'll drive my Bolt for as long as it lasts and then I'll get a new electric car. I'm excited to see more makes and models hitting the market, hoping for a small SUV next time. Electric cars still have brakes, brake fluid, tires, suspension components, an A/C system, door locks, window motors, etc. to worry about and they can fail just as easily. Don’t think electric cars don’t have their own sets of problems. A bad battery pack, bad cell or faulty/corroded connections are a lot harder to diagnose over time than a leaky o-ring or gasket that can easily be seen. Electric cars are indeed the future but for *right now* and probably the next 20 years or so, I can promise you something as simple as a properly maintained Toyota Corolla, Mazda 3 or plain jane Honda Civic will outlast **any** electric car on the market today. Battery packs have about a 10 year life span before they crap out and lose the ability to hold a charge. This checklist makes me glad I have an electric car. Seconding this. It’s well worth the read time just to know these things exist and remember to refer back to them later for refresher and details. (part 2/2) 1. This one is a little more advanced, but not too difficult. It’s also pretty important. You’ll need your OBD scanner. What you want to do is look at the engine data and search for the fuel trims. An engine computer injects fuel based on a bunch of sensor inputs. It has a base fuel map programmed into it that it references, based on those sensor inputs, and injects XXX amount of fuel. There is an oxygen sensor in the exhaust system that analyzes the exhaust gas and acts like a quality control inspector. It tells the computer whether it injected too much or too little fuel. The computer then makes adjustments to that base fuel map to make sure it’s injecting the proper amount of fuel. Those adjustments are called fuel trims. A 5% fuel trim would mean the computer had to add 5% more fuel than the base map. A -5% fuel trim would mean that the computer had to reduce fuel by 5% from the base fuel map. In a perfect world, fuel trims would be zero. However, that’s rarely the case. Fuel quality, different atmospheric conditions, engine wear, engine or sensor problems, etc, make it so that the base fuel map is never perfect, so the computer is always adding or subtracting fuel (usually it’s adding, but sometimes it’s subtracting). I don’t like to see a computer adding or subtracting more than 10% fuel. Any more than that and there may be a problem. Any more than 15-20% and there is definitely a problem. So what you’re going to want to do is look at the data on the engine computer. You want to make sure you connect to the computer using GENERIC OBD2 on your scanner. Different manufacturers will call these fuel trims by different names, and display the percentage in different ways. But if you connect using generic obd, it’s always going to use a standardized display format across all vehicles. You’re going to see a long list of a bunch of different data. Scroll through until you find “short term fuel trim” and “long term fuel trim” Short term fuel trim, depending on your scanner, may be displayed as: Short term fuel trim STFT ST ST% Long term fuel trim may be displayed as: Long Term Fuel Trim LTFT LT LT% Let’s assume your scanner uses the more common STFT and LTFT designation. You’re going to see a number after the letters, so STFT1 and LTFT1. The number means the “bank” or side of the engine. A 4 cylinder engine only has one “side” so you’ll only see STFT1 and LTFT1. However, a V6 or V8 engine has two sides of the engine (3 or 4 cylinders on one side, and 3 or 4 cylinder on the other side, hence the V6 or V8). The computer controls fuel independently for each side of the engine, so you’ll see a STFT1 and LTFT1 for one side of the engine, and STFT2 and LTFT2 for the other side. Don’t be alarmed if you’re looking at a V6 or V8 engine and you only see STFT1 and LTFT1. Many late 90s cars and some early 2000s cars didn’t control fuel separately for each side of the engine, and lumped both sides into one bank. When looking at the short term and long term fuel trims, you’ll notice the long term fuel trim number stays pretty steady, but the short term fuel trim number may change a lot. This is normal. The difference between short and long term fuel trims is not important, but what is important to note is that they are cumulative. So if STFT=4 and LTFT=3, then your total fuel trim is 7%. Let’s take a look at some examples on a V8: STFT1 3 STFT2 6 LTFT1 2 LTFT2 1 So the total fuel trim on bank 1 is 5% (3+2) and the total fuel trim on bank 2 is 7% (6+1). Each bank is below +/- 10%. That’s pretty good. STFT1 -5 STFT2 3 LTFT1 3 LTFT2 1 Bank 1 fuel trim is -2% (-5 +3) and bank 2 is 4% (3+1). Again, that’s good. STFT1 6 STFT2 7 LTFT1 10 LTFT2 15 Bank 1 fuel trim is 16% (6+10) and bank 2 is 22% (7+15). That’s not good. Walk away from this one. Check these numbers with the engine running at idle, and rev up the engine and hold it at about 2500rpms and check it there. Like I said, you may see the STFT number change pretty quickly, so just use the average of the numbers you see for that one. If you have someone with you, you can have them check the numbers while you drive as well. Practice this on a car you have access to beforehand. 1. Last and not least, don’t trust the person selling the car. Trust your eyes, your ears, and your instinct. You don’t know this person, they may be lying about the car, or try and tell you that the thing you’re worried about is no big deal, it’s just this or that. Or they had a guy check it out and it’s a really easy/quick fix. Be patient and find the right car. If something is fishy or doesn’t seem right, move on to the next car. A car is a pretty big expense. Most people budget for the purchase price of a car and don’t consider there may be considerable extra expense in fixing major problems. Minimize the possibility of those extra expenses by inspecting the car the best you can. I would recommend running through these things, and any others you want to add, on your current car, your parents’ cars, friends’ cars, etc. Do it several times. Get comfortable in making these checks so that when you’re doing them in front of some stranger on their car, you won’t forget anything.   I just did a pre buy a few weeks ago for a customer. It was a Ford Ranger and it had compression problems and the engine was knocking, among other things. Needless to say the inspection results were not good. Customer did not buy the car thank goodness. The seller was also at the shop and I offered to give him a copy of the report as well. He didn't want it. The next poor bastard to look at that car was not going to know any of what we found. You're welcome. “Do you think it’ll last for x years?” How the fuck am I supposed to know? I can tell you the condition of the vehicle right now. I bought a vehicle 6 years ago that was in great shape. 6 months later it had a coolant leak in a bad spot and kept draining the heater core so I had no heat.... in Canada... in winter. Almost immediately after that the driver side window regulator broke and the window doesn’t roll back up. About a year ago the cam position sensor broke. There’s no way to tell. I did a really thorough check on everything. That’s just how it goes some times. This honestly. I know absolutely nothing about cars except they can drive, I got way more confused reading this than actually feeling it was helpful. I don't know any of these acronyms, I have no idea what these things mean or where I should even start to look at them. At least I don't have a driver's license, so don't have to think about that for a while De nada amigo. Espero que esta información te ayude con tu próxima compra. Let me guess, timing chain issues? Call and talk to corporate services. We have an Altima and the CVT transmission went. Looked online and they had doubled the warranty to 120,000 miles For the transmission. Cars included were like 2005 to 2010 and ours was a 2011. I called and complained and said our should be included because it’s the same exact transmission. They reviewed our case and gave us the transmission at no cost as long as we payed for the installation. It’s always worth making a phone call and checking it out If you bought it from/took it to a dealer who informed you that you were one week out from the recall fixing the issue, I'd try negotiating with them (demand they fix the issue or refund the same). If they don't, I'd send a 'letter of demand' outlining my concerns (very succinctly and matter of fact, not complaining or whiny) to the dealership and the car brand's head office in your country (scanned and sent via email so you have a record that it arrived, and of following correspondence). If you do this firmly but respectfully threre's a good chance they'll come to the party. In this day and age of internet, social media and outrage culture, businesses don't want to risk damage to their brand (but don't threaten or imply that you would do this to them, that would be blackmail and weakens your position). I did this a couple of years ago with a dealership for a major international brand. They provided a refund check within 3 days, and asked that I sign a non-disclosure agreement, which I was happy to do as I got my money back. Don't let car dealers walk all over you. They rely on their confidence and gambling that you don't know how to stand up to them. But you have more power than you realise in this situation. If you do write a letter of demand, make sure you write a history/chronology of dates: purchase, issues with car, dates you discussed this and their response etc. Keep the letter formal and professional, not emotional. And quote any relevant provisions from local/national laws. Your country will probably have consumer protection legislation that would be relevant... Relevant questions to make an argument: How long ago did you purchase the car? And we're you informed in writing of the recall? (Car brands/dealers are exported to maintain records of ownership and inform the current owner in writing of statutory recall and final dates...) Just be honest with the problem. Expect to sell it at a discount. There are always home mechanics that are willing to buy something with a problem and fix it themselves to get a good deal. Yes. I require first class travel, though. So long and thanks for all the fish! -- mass edited with redact.dev https://snew.notabug.io/r/LifeProTips/comments/egs81p/lpt_some_tips_for_buying_a_used_car_for_people/?utm_source=share&amp;utm_medium=ios_app&amp;utm_name=iossmf I'm single and ready to mingle.... Luckily I live in CA, so that's not an issue. I do feel sorry for people that work in the business in those kinds of areas. Occasionally I'll get an east coast car in the shop, and I'll know it as soon as I lift it. Great, now this 2 hour job is going to take 4 hours. Where's the MAP torch?! I think the best option is to have a professional look at it. That's a good idea on your part. My tips are for people that for some reason are not able to do that. I think taking him with you would the best route as he can show you what he's looking at and why it may be good or bad. You are likely to learn some valuable info. You're welcome. Glad you found it useful. You're welcome. I hate scammers too. I especially hate having to give people the bad news that their new purchase has problems. One of our customers just brought his girlfirends Acura that she had just bought in for an inspection. The car had been in a front end collision (undisclosed of course). I could tell it was a DIY repair by someone that shouldn't be doing that kind of work. Radiator still leaking, electric fan assembly connected with one out of 4 bolts to the radiator, because it wasn't even from that model Acura. I even found Ford parts in there jury rigged to make it work! Bunch of other issues too. He said fix it all. $2500. Hadn't even own the car for 2 weeks. Thanks! I bought a car where they'd literally switched the battery and tyres out after I bought it. &#x200B; An hour after it was delivered it wouldn't start. Turns out the battery I now had installed wasn't even the correct type for the car, and the tyres were older than the car itself. That was fun time in the small claims court trying to get my money back. Money. The root of all shady behavior. That’s why I only buy cars private sale, I find it’s a lot harder for someone to keep up the facade to your face, rather than just being a minion at a company. Prey on their morals a little, in a good way! Haven't you seen Matilda? Great post man! Quick question if you don't mind. Is there a car brand one should avoid? Car people have been telling me to go for Hondas or Toyotas. This is a great guide. I wish my little brother and sister would have read this before buying their last cars. I am definitely saving this for next time I am buying a car, just so I don't forget to check everything. OP is 100% dad  Great list, you’ve done a service for those who are not mechanically inclined. I love cars and feel fairly knowledgeable, but I still learned a few tips here. OBD reader is a fantastic investment that more people should buy! i disagree with this. The best thing they can do is take it to a mechanic for inspection if interested in it. The typical cost in TX for a pre-sale inspection is about 50-100 bucks and most of them are weirdly excited to point out every flaw in the car. A ton of sound advice in this post! Let me add some of my own experience, and advice from my old man. Little background on me. I am a DIY mechanic who has assisted my father since about 13 on his race car, family cars, my cars. Took auto for 3 years in high school. I have only paid more than 800 dollars on 2 vehicles in my life. One was a truck I bought with 207k on it that had a plow and was a 3/4 ton pick up. Paid 2800 drove it for 8 years and the oil rings went at 325. The other is my wives car. Its paid off, and has over 230k on it. All but 1 of my cars/light trucks lasted me years. If you are wondering, yes I bought it from a guy who worked for a dealer. 1. Buy the car from the owner. Go to their house, look at their house. Do they keep their house maintained? Ask them a ton of questions. How long have they owned it? Who did they get it from? What problems has it had? Why are they getting rid of it? Red flags. It's my friends and they are putting it on my lawn. I work for a dealership. 2. Avoid "it just needs....." or "my mechanic said" You ae just buying a problem and/or buying a problem from someone who doesn't know/care what said problem is. Especially if it is a head gasket, or a thermostat. Avoid any car that has overheated. Period. 3. Take your knee and push the car down by its bumper. All it should do is come back up and stop. If it bounces it has bad shocks. 4. I'll reiterate if the car is warm/running/started before you get there it is a red flag. Car should be cold, and start under it's own power. 5. Lay down and look under the car. Look for leaks of any kind, oily metal, rust rot. 6. Pop hood and check fluids as described in the post. 7. Test drive. Does it drive in a straight line? Does the car feel like it is straining, or feel sluggish? Make weird noises? Get the car up to highway speeds, some noises don't manifest until high speeds. 8. Run/drive car for 30 min. This gets it up to operating temp. Which means the cooling system is up to operating pressure. Meaning if it leaks coolant, might have been overheated. This is the point to check under the car a second time. Also check the exhaust for excessive steam, water. At pressure, if the head gasket leaks into the cylinder, it will come out of the tail pipe. Happy hunting. Also check floors to make sure nothing is wet ( sign of leak somewhere) Why the hell did this post get deleted? What the fuck did you do? Great list, you’ve done a service for those who are not mechanically inclined. I love cars and feel fairly knowledgeable, but I still learned a few tips here. OBD reader is a fantastic investment that more people should buy! I was helping someone buy a used Chrysler product. Brought My micropod II and laptop.. Dealer selling it thought I was crazy also Best LPT: Do not buy any motor vehicle, ever. Motor vehicles are the single largest non-income earning, immediate loss asset you will buy in your entire lifetime. They are the No.1 cause of financial difficulties in peoples' lives, and they are a shackle to your ruin. Instead, buy a bicycle, and invest the money saved in Tesla. You will make bazillions. And talk about how much shit you can fit in it. I’m walking here!! Then you take out the oil stick and taste test No tire kickers, no lowballers, no scammers. I know what I've got. No text, call number and ask for Mike. Don't forget to check the headlight fluid I can't, I'm too tyred I mow lawns for a living!  Oh pick me! I used to cut grass for a living! I hate mowing the lawn so see ya later dad! Wow. Thank you for the gold. Yes, you can share the info. The more people that know, the better it is. Lexus may be the most reliable brand, but when stuff breaks it is hell to repair. Not only are there basically no aftermarket DIY support, basic repairs are absolutely hell. I tried to replace the water pump on an ES350 and the only way requires lifting the engine out of the car. Replacing the tensioner mostly likely also requires lifting the engine unless you want to go through hell unmounting a lot of other parts. This is why I keep going back to BMW every time - on top of numerous DIY guides and videos, I can find full dumps of the BMW TIS online so I have all the tools the dealer uses to fix cars including all coding tools and repair manuals. If you're selling a car what's the best way have an inspection done without the risk of the vehicle being stolen? What if the car is Certified Pre-Owned? Should I still hire my own mechanic to do an inspection? Same with houses. I cheaped out on checking pipes in the house (plumber would have added around 40% cost to the check-up and I was already a bit skeptical about the guy checking, but e was a good guy in the end) and while I haven't had any problems yet, it would be nice to know if the pipes are good or not. The guy saved me about 18k. Worth every penny and more. So basically, getting professionals for any big purchase is a good thing, as they know what they're doing and we, the on-professionals, probably don't. 180 US dollars. Saved me a lot on one vehicle, confirmed I had a great deal on another. I've done it twice now, and absolutely will again in the future. One time I bought a used car from a dealership. They let me take the car home for a 3-day extended test drive. I got it inspected during that 3 day trip. But just ask the dealer what options they will allow: bring mechanic to them, borrow car for a few hours and bring it back, or send it to a mechanic if your choice for you. It is not an unusual request. The mechanic comes to the lot with all he needs to do the inspection on the lot, and also takes it for a test drive with whomever you're working with saleman-wise, just like you were taking a test drive. He was able to look underneath, listen for weird sounds, look at paint, engine oil, filters, battery, tires, etc. All the important items. This is what I’m wondering too. Unless they are just talking about from private sellers. I paid a 100$ refundable deposit and took the car home for an overnight test drive. Went straight from the dealership to the mechanic. Most good dealerships will allow either. If they refuse, or insist on using their mechanic, you don’t want that car. Or probably any car from that dealer “Or they actually let you take it to the mechanic?” Don’t tell them? What are they going to do about it? Not sell you a car?? You don’t want it anyways if that’s the case. Take the car for a test drive, let the lot know you wanna get it checked out by your guy. They'll let you take it there after getting your license and insurance info. Even if you go through the whole list it would still be idiotic to not pay 100 dollars for a PPI. Unless you can put the car on a lift yourself and have been a mechanic for years, it’s absolutely pointless to do all this yourself. If any seller (private or dealer) gives you a hard time about doing any of the things in the OP, or will not let you get an inspection, walk away. They are scared you will find what they are trying to hide. It's so worth it, for the peace of mind. The $ I saved with the first one I wouldn't have known that they didn't change the oil, and missed the paint work that was done indicating some sort of accident. Easily saved 3k plus I bet, walked away from that one. You could still have something happen after the fact, but spending 180 bucks (or whatever else someone would charge) is SUCH a small price to pay in the long run of total cost of ownership of the vehicle. Handy tip for cambelts is every 100,000kms is what I was also told growing up And for those who were not aware: typically mid-size and larger trucks have a chain instead of a belt. Very true. I will also note that rental cars are 100% going to be abused. I would avoid them. What is a fleet vehicle? And how can you tell if a car being sold was once a rental car? Yeh, which one eh? Sounds very useful! Would you care to share with us the name of this website? What's the site? I upload our data to Carfax. They don't charge me anything. Weird Phone lights aren't normally focused, so it can cast more shadows and make it harder to see around things or to look inside structure at pipelines and stuff. You can make it work with a phone, but if you have a real torch available it's 100 times better It shines light in a general area rather than more concentrated. So higher points when you’re under the car make it more difficult to see clearly. Not always bright enough. You want to see everything. I'm guessing they were talking about the light from the screen. A good flashlight can see further into an engine bay / suspension assembly, and can reveal expensive problems like weeping CV boots or bad engine mounts. And I'd rather drop a 15 dollar flashlight into an engine bay than my iphone If you take it out and replace the missing section with exhaust pipe, then it would sound normal to a buyer. Thieves don’t care about trying to sell the rest of the car after they sell the catalytic converters, shitty dealers or previous owners will patch it. THIS! Came here to post this. If there's anything other than light rust (like, less than an inch every here-or-there) don't bother. A car that's lived 10-15 years in a non-snowy climate shouldn't have any rust (aside from the above). Alternators can also be rebuilt for significantly cheaper than a new one. Obviously it won't work for all types of faults, but it's an option not many people realise is out there. So you spend money on an extra battery, but not just buy an alternator? Why not just replace it? I had an evap code pop on my used car. I replaced the gas cap, cleared the codes, drove or an hour, clear the code again and after the second time it never came back. Did you still buy the car? That would be an instant red flag for me.  I forget that cars have computers in them nowadays. This post is a good reminder. I'll get one of those reader thingys before I go buy my next truck. > Even the knock-off brands that are like $4 FTFY Just be aware that the codes are not always going to point out exactly what's wrong. My clockspring is broken in my Nissan Murano, but it's throwing a code for a "bad cruise control switch". This should be higher up. Torque is THE correctsolution for this, as they also have the modified code packs where many manufacturers deviate from the OBD2 standard. Will it display cel codes as well ? Do you have any manufacturer-specific hardware? I've got a Vauxhall (Opel) and you need an Tech2 or Op-Com in order to *do* anything with it I find snap on scanners can’t code all the new diesel injectors. I know there had been a recent update but we find The Bosch ESI scanner to be awesome and the g scan to come a very close second. We also have the denso and Delphi scanners but Bosch and g scan gets used heaps. Upvoted for this app. Well made and simple to use.  The more upvotes this post gets, the more people see it. We need humans like this everywhere immediately! Is number one tip possible if the car has a button starter? Not that I’d hold you to it, but what would be a reasonable rate to you for something like that? Mismatching tires also speaks to the persons overall maintenance. There’s not a tire shop or dealer in the world that won’t recommend 2 or 4 tires(depending on the driveline). If that vehicle has a single odd tire then you already know the person has ignored mechanics advise on necessary repairs. That, for me, is an instant walk away. Or a tire that couldn't get fixed from a tire puncture Oh no I totally get it. I wasn't offended, just throwing my 2 cents in. I came here to say the same thing, I work on my own cars and they always look like shit, but are basically sleepers inside. I'm not one for car culture, so to me it looking bad is just insurance against theft. But, that said you'd never see one of my cars haha Nice. I tested if it used minutes and seconds or just seconds before posting but didn’t know there was a backdoor. I get it. I have a couple areas of expertise and it’s definitely not easy to dumb them down to a novice level. Because I'm dumb Thanks so much for this timely post. I'm probably making a purchase this week. I'm no mechanic but I'm handy enough with cars to do everything on your list and probably a few other things that you might not have included. Would it make sense to go to a mechanic even if I did every test and was satisfied by the result? If my mechanic didn't have access to a lift, would that make a difference. List of Top Tier Gasoline brands: https://www.toptiergas.com/licensed-brands/ I 100% agree with that. While obviously not always the case, replacing just the most worn tyre is a potential sign that other maintenance could have been avoided/cheaped out on. Odd tyres could also be a sign of tracking issues that are wearing certain tyres out faster than others. Personally, I'm banking on saving enough money on gas and oil changes that I'll be able to replace the battery when the time comes instead of having to get a whole new car. But you raise some good points. They aren't for everyone. Still on the factory brakes on my 8 year old Volt :) Regenerative braking is amazing. Also only lost 5% range... Older EVs had battery life problems, newer ones don't. I have a 2013 Nissan Leaf (built after April 2013), has 60K miles and all 12 battery life bars. I expect my pack to last the life of the car. Edit: reason April 2013 is important for the Leaf is Nissan changed the battery chemistry around that time. Battery tech/chemistry is continually evolving and improving. Everyone who warns about expensive battery replacement for EVs is usually quoting stats from a decade ago. It's like saying carburetors are crap so don't buy a gas car, while neglecting to acknowledge that carbs haven't been used in cars in 20 years. Granted I don't know much about cars I do know it's not a timing belt issue. It burns oil, like if I don't change the oil every 1500 miles the dip stick reads 0 oil. We have had the car for 6 years now and I'm afraid even after only 110k it probably doesn't have much left in it. I had a slimy dealer try that same thing on me, but I had taken photos of the engine bay with the number plate in view as well as the tyres and a few other photos. They quickly replaced them when I showed them the photos. What’s the ending to your story here? More like greed. Money itself is not That's a hard question to answer, because invariably someone is going to chime in and say the car I don't like is something they have and it has been fantastic. Conversely, a car I say is great, someone will chime in and say "I had that and it was a POS". I work on everything from Toyotas to Deloreans in my shop. Well, not the Deloreans so much anymore. I've gotten a good sense, overall, of what is reliable and what isn't. I would say the top three are: 1. Toyota/lexus 2. Honda/acura 3. Hyundai/Kia Though stay away from Hyundai / Kia cars from before 2010ish. They used to not be very good, but in the late 2000s they really stepped up their game and started making some good cars. As to what to stay away from, I'd say mostly European cars. Specifically German and English. They can be some really nice cars, but they also tend to have a lot of problems, and even the simplest of problems can be expensive. The main issue is they try and put too much new, unperfected technology into their cars to make it the latest and greatest. Unfortunately, that comes at a price of reliability. That's why Toyota tends to always be at the top of the reliability list. There are lots of new technologies like cylinder deactivation that they haven't implemented. They use what they know works and is reliable. They're not in the market of being Cutting Edge. Oh, and at the bottom of the list would be DeLorean LOL. Avoid luxury brands unless you want to buy luxury priced parts. As a mechanic I'm not a big fan of working on GM shit but that doesn't mean you can't work with it. If you want something reliable Toyotas and Honda's are notorious in that regard which is likely why you've been receiving such recommendations  Hondas and Toyota are super common in the US, which means parts and finding someone experienced with them are gonna be cheaper and easier to find. I'd recommend staying away from BMWs, and cadalics more than anything. BMWs are like boats where you throwing money into a bottomless pit and Caddys are way too expensive for the smallest repair Great, now i'll never look at cars the same way again I mean it makes sense. They're hoping that they can impress you with their diagnostic skills/overall car knowledge because they want more of your business down the line regardless of what car you end up buying. Surely you want to have some baseline for if a car might be worth buying or not. You're not going to take every car you're interested in to a mechanic and drop 100s when you can do some basic observations yourself. I disagree with you. Most technicians or shops are only doing a basic multi point inspection and a quick visual check when you bring it in. When your getting a pre inspection your not always getting the truth, you could buy the car becuase it passed pre inspection, and a day later it starts having problems. That's not the techs fault, that's the nature of cars. Sometimes you just cant tell if theres a problem until the problem can be replicated. The advice OP posted is better than most pre inspections. At the most a shop might test for OBD codes if the CEL is on. That noted OP gave very good advice, but it may not be practical to alot of the people who read it. OP seems like he knows his cars, and I think the knowledge he considers basic and easy, is actually a bit more advanced for people who are seeking advice on how to inspect a used car. For instance, clear flood crank/relative compression tests often require a trained ear that knows what they are listening to. Someone who does not have experience listening to good and bad compression may not understand what they are hearing. However that said, these things can be learned by anybody with some research and practice, and imo are just as important to know as knowing how to change a battery. It's also more thorough than what alot of shops do on there "inspections." If OP takes the time to do these things on his pre inspections, than that is a good shop to go to. I work auto manufacturing now, but at my last shop, we would send the car to the high school lube techs for an MPI. **this baby can fit so many problems** 2003 Civic, 187k miles, $5000 firm. ~~headlight~~ Blinker fluid, gotta get the terminology right Welcome aboard, Junior! Take it to a trusted mechanic and have them inspect it before you sell it. Present the report to any prospective buyers. My reports are all digital with pictures and videos. It is a link that is accessible by anyone , so if you're posting it online, you can just insert the link in the ad. Take a photo of their drivers license first. Then if they steal it, file a police report, collect your insurance, and no need to fool with selling it! Go with them? You could just accompany the potential buyer to the shop where it's being inspected. Yeah, it's a pain in the ass and an inconvenience. However, odds are if they've test driven your vehicle and are willing to spend $150 on an inspection, they'll likely want to buy the car as long as the mechanic doesn't discover any major mechanical issues. And if they decide to not buy the car, you've got a free inspection report you can show to the next potential buyer. Win win! Drive your car to the mechanic of their choice. Simple. In theory, no. However, I have gotten some CPO cars in my shop that I found issues with and I was like "how did they miss this glaring problem?". Most dealerships are all about high volume numbers. Unfortunately that impacts thoroughness. Buddy of mine got a certified Chevy pickup from a Chevy dealer. Got it home, noticed the reverse lights were out.. took it back to the dealer for a checkup, they wanted to charge him a diagnostic fee, 4 hours after he signed the papers. I highly recommend doing everything posted here, yourself or a professional mechanic. If i check every car im willing to buy and have to spend 180 each time and the car is shit.. I dont think it is, if you can catch an issue while doing these steps before having a PPI done, you'll save the money you would have spent to have a mechanic do the same and more to the car. Not many people can just afford multiple PPIs when shopping around. Yeah I don't think the list was intended to replace an actual mechanics inspection. To me it seems more like a list of common things that anyone can see that are deal breakers. Sort of a quick first pass to avoid paying for an inspection on a car with easily visible serious problems. Or they're tired of tire kickers expecting way too much from a $1000 car. I work at a rental car place and can confirm this. We had a Tahoe come in with almost 20k miles that had never had the oil changed in it. They may look nice and be new, but the chances of them being abused is pretty high as you said. I’ve heard the opposite—that cars from rental fleets are usually meticulously maintained, and buying used from a rental car agency is a good bet. Usually comes with warranty too. I’m not sure what to think after your comment lol A fleet vehicle would be one that was owned by a company that was big enough to have and maintain a fleet of vehicles for use by their employees. It might be a car they could drive to and from work or one that stays at the workplace and people sign out the keys as they need them. A car dealership might identify it as a fleet vehicle to explain why there is no Carfax history with it. They might also try to use it as a selling point because fleet mechanics will generally do the required maintenance. Fleet vehicles are basically owned by a business, organization, or government agency. Some would have a relatively easy life (say a detective's car), others will have high engine hours with hard miles (patrol cars that idle a lot and then have to intercept cars or race to emergencies).  Basically it would be time spent Times their hourly rate. I would probably spend 30 minutes checking the car out which is about all you can do without having access to your specialized tools and a lift. Add to that travel time to get there and back. If I were doing it at my shop, it usually takes 1.5 to 2 hours to do a thorough check and document everything I worked with a lady who had a battery pack replacement on a hybrid she had to do. Was something like $6000 at the time, a few years back. I’m sure that’ll get cheaper as the technology matures, but it was as expensive as a used car at that point! Damn that's fucking crazy!!! Wow! I too am interested. Upvoted! Don't leave us hanging good stories can always help others! There’s a scummy used car dealer buried in the desert near OP’s house. I remember the first time Hyundai came out with that 100000 mile warranty that covered pretty much everything. You could tell they finally had some faith in their product. When I was buying my car 3 years ago (car was 2 years old salvaged at that time), I just called the Dealership and said "I'm about to buy a civic and wanted to have it looked at before I did". It had really really low millage and I was spending like 9k on it. I just paid 150ish dollars at the Honda dealership and they told me EVERYTHING. From the accident that totaled it, what was fixed, what needed fixing (really small stuff). I even told the guy, I'm about to buy this car for 9k what do you think, and we talked for like a good minute where he gave me his thoughts and he didn't even try to sell me anything. 10/10 would spend the 150 again. If you don't know anything about cars, that's a good option too. Car is still going hella strong, and I never did anything but change tires/oil and what not. Funny you say that, my husband has a 2008 Kia Optima that he bought new that just passed 640k miles last week. Original engine, though transmission was replaced under warranty early on but it was only at like 40k. Every year since it hit 250k we think it will die but it just keeps going. Kia should probably study it at this point to find out what all they did right! It isn't babied either, he abuses it honestly. It is lucky to get an oil change, we don't have a garage so it is never parked under a cover, due to the nature of his job it is often driven down dirt/gravel roads, in stop and go city traffic and highway miles all in one day. Maybe it is a freak of nature but the '08 Optimas at least are ok in my book! After owning a used AMG, I would have to agree with your assessment of German cars. The only thing more expensive than a new Mercedes is a used Mercedes.  In December 2018, my '97 Camry drove like a cloud into the dealership where I bought my next car, and only gave up on the Camry because a mechanic that my family trusts who I took to inspect it told me that it was more expensive to pass inspection than the car is worth. That car didn't give me any problems. Bought it for $2,000 in 2010. I bought a 2016 Jetta. Oops. Actually it runs really well, and I'm pretty careful about upkeep, so I'm not too worried. I'm not expecting it to run for 21 years, though. Nicely put, to be sure. My small indie mechanic lovingly calls my 07 Hyundai Accent “the shitbox”, but it’s at 140k without major issue, and he’s been maintaining it for all 140k. I will say the coil packs like to die every couple years and he has a case of replacements he bought just for them. It’s routine enough that I can just call him when the misfires start and he comes over to take 5 minutes under the hood with me swapping them and charges me a beer. Thanks a lot for the info and taking the time to write this. There are many that have an equivalent lower tier version that may make parts cheaper if you can cross reference parts. Aka: don't only look up the Cadillac Escalade part number, look up the equivalent Chevy/GMC part numbers. I have time and time again saved money because I knew to look up the various part numbers for the same part shared between different badge engineered versions of the same vehicles. Be it the Cobalt/G5/Ion or the Grand Am/Achieva/Skylark. This was helpful! Thanks for taking the time to respond. One thing to note, Electric cars are now taking the spotlight for being the most reliable and low maintenance vehicle. While yes, they are not perfect/it might need a new battery in 15-20 years, but that is still a serious contender for true reliability in the daily commute. I love jeeps. Always have. Got a 97 tj(wrangler) with 100k miles and it ran great right around 140 k...the rear axle went bad. Twice. Then the transmission started failing. After that i cut my losses and inherited my wifes 98 limited 4runner. It has 260k miles. Original engine and transmission and runs so good. On fact it was more capable off road than my tj was! I still like jeeps(cjs and tjs specifically) but ill only own one once i have more disposable income to throw at it once the inevitable breaking down starts. BMW prices their parts like they've been hand built from solid aluminium by a wizened german machinist located deep within the black forest Backing up your point of staying away from bmw unless you have lots of disposable income. I had a 3 series a few years ago and it is outrageous to keep up with the car. Something like $450 for a fucking battery and most mechanics don’t like working on bmws so u have to take it to the dealer. They literally open up their computer and try to sell you $2000 worth of shit without even looking at the car! They tried to tell me I needed brakes because the computer said so. They hadn’t even seen my car yet. Have you not heard of (https://www.dailymotion.com/video/x359dd) *Oh no* *cries in BMW* Right right blinker fluid. My bad  You've helped a lot of people with this post. And probably pissed a lot of other people off. Thank you. May the rest of your days be tolerable, at least. THANK YOU. That is so much better than having to decipher chickenscratch on a piece of paper to determine whether your multi-thousand dollar investment is a sound one or not. Welp then it’s saved you a lot more than $180 :p Then you saved yourself more than $180 in repairs... Then that’s a deal because you just saved yourself thousands in repairs on a broken piece of shit.  Then you do it yourself; as detailed in this post. Obviously you'd take it for an inspection if at first you had a good idea that the car at least looks good You would ideally do some sort of checking yourself to eliminate total shit cars and when you find one YOU think is quality and good to buy, take it to a mechanic. If you’re buying a 15k used car 180 is totally worth not getting stuck with a car that needs 5k in additional repairs. If you checked 10 cars for 180 and each was about 5k and you were recommended to not take it, you would be in a better shape than 6 months down the line when the engine gives up or something. Good things are worth waiting for. Are people paying 180 bucks for a PPI on a thousand dollar car? A family member just bought a previous rental 2018 Kia Optima with **48,000 miles** on it... Our office has fleet vehicles, and I do a lot of travel so have rentals often. It actually stunned me how badly people abuse the cars... Hard acceleration is the biggest issue. I’ll see coworkers get up to 6k rpm pretty much every time, and when I get in rentals there’s often valve chatter or the engine responds oddly to acceleration (most cars build an “acceleration map/profile” based on typical usage). Tells me that I don’t drive it as hard as the engine expects... Like I own a turbocharged sports car, nothing a Hyundai Elantra is going to put out is going to get you there any faster. I can’t even do that with a car MADE to accelerate faster. You’re not going to save more than 30 seconds... calm down. My ex and I rented an SUV from a local branch of a well-known rental company for a 2-week road trip driving from Chicago to western South Dakota and back. We picked up the rental the morning we are planning on leaving, and my ex did a quick check of everything when we stopped back at home to pick up our luggage. He noticed the dash said that the oil life was down to 20%. Like wtf, we are about to drive over 1,000 miles and we don't want this SUV to give us problems in the middle of the trip. We called the place we rented it from, and the lady says, "oh, just go buy some oil and top it off and save the receipt and we will reimburse you when you return the rental." WTF?! We were both just like NO. Thankfully, I work at a power equipment shop, so we stop up at my work, talk to my co-worker, he tells us to run down the street and buy oil and a filter and he was nice enough to do the oil change on the spot for us so we could finally get on the road. I felt like he was such a lifesaver for us that day bc we could actually drive this thing now without worrying about it running out of oil or whatever. I definitely gave my coworker a good tip that day! To top it off, when we finally get home and go to return the rental the next day (a Sunday with shortened hours mind you), we are driving up and down the road where we got the rental from, but cannot find the building or sign. I thought I was going crazy. Finally, I am convinced I see the building, but it is empty and the sign is gone. WTF?! We both pull in, I get it and walk up to the door, and see a sign that explains that they moved and to see them at their new location at whatever address. We barely make it to the new location before they close to drop off the rental. They never told us when we rented the car that they were moving and to drop it off at a new location when we returned. They never reimbursed us for the oil or the filter. Horrible rental experience for us! Oh, and fun fact... My lifesaver coworker that changed the oil for my ex and I, he is now my current boyfriend. He changes my oil on my car for me now. And he really is a lifesaver- he is also a firefighter/paramedic. Edit: my ex and I were broken up and both single when my coworker and I started dating. I started getting nasty messages about having an affair with my coworker. Did not happen and that is not why my ex and I broke up. Stop assuming shit. And it still worked? I went 15k miles before piston decided to go sideways instead of up and down. Well sure they will be well maintained I mean on average I guess. But its likely they were abused by the drivers... I think its better to find private car with good maintenance record. What you are describing is exactly the symptoms of a car that was flooded, auctioned off by an insurance company and rebuilt. Rebuilt titles in general are a huge red flag. I drive a lot of old shitty cars, but I would never buy a rebuild Even at the rate out here of 120/hr for a mechanic, it's worth saving thousands of dollars in repairs later. In a better world Don't know about the states but in Australia they have 7 year unlimited KMs warranty. You can keep it for 5 years and then sell it on with 2 years of warranty left to keep that resale pretty high. It's a pretty good deal. Hundais and Kias are better than they used to be but they have a pretty hard upper mileage limit after which they will almost all be more trouble than they are worth. Most any brand does,but theirs is around 120k whereas it's more like double that or more with a Honda or Toyota. Thanks for this! I'm trying to get a new car and I'm not too knowledgeable but this sounds like a great idea! I like learning new things. > Maybe it is a freak of nature but the '08 Optimas at least are ok in my book! I guess mine is too going by this guy's opinion, mine's almost 20 years old and it's still going Had an AMG. Bought it at 3yrs old and 40k miles. Performance was amazing, BUT.. $14k in repairs over 3 yrs. Yes, $14k. For example, a fuel pump went out...$2500. Oh my god, that’s so spot on. Although, I really love them and will spend the extra money on them (BMWs, too), but at least I know what I’m getting into. Remember: if you like it and can afford it, don’t worry about other people’s opinions. Starter for a Lamborghini Gallardo is about $2,000- same starter goes in a VW TDI Beetle from the same year- $70, for instance. This is good advice for if your working on your own car/know the guy that is but the average Joe doesn't source they're own parts they just take it to the shop and want it fixed Huge factor here is battery degradation. Liquid cooled batteries have a MUCH longer lifespan than air-cooled batteries. There are a bunch of 1st Gen Nissan Leafs (leaves?) Which are crazy cheap for low miles because the batteries are losing capacity. In addition, new battery tech is miles ahead of previous development - literally. A few years ago 100 mi range in ideal conditions was news. Now 200+ mile ranges are the expectation. As far as maintenance costs though, BEVs are the way to go - as long as you have a liquid cooled battery in good condition! My mind conjured the image of Tim the Enchanter at this comment. Changing the oil, oh my God! $300.00! Had a 500 series and it drove like a goat wagon. Traded it for two Hyundais that ran like tops! Gives a hole new meaning to "Used Car" ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) Ah yes, my first car. Airbag suspension would not fully inflate so I felt every hum- I mean bump. Might be the best thing ive seen all day I was watching samcrac on YouTube, he bought a range rover with a V8 and "mechanical issues" At first i thought not too bad, should be interesting it's probably got a rover V8... Then he lifted the bonnet and I seen a BMW M62... I knew nothing but pain was headed his way after that They are two different fluids and they are NOT interchangeable. And you should be checking both levels regularly. Not anymore. Now I give him a headlamp and put a neck brace on him so I can get a steady stream of light. >You can’t fight corruption without pissing off corrupt people Do you know what the difference between a rental car and a 4 X4 is? There are certain places you don't take a 4 x 4 I bought a 2015 Ford Focus SW from a rental company, took it on a test drive and to a mechanic for a pre-inspection and I'm very happy with it - and I hope it continues without any problems! The car was less than 36,000 km when I bought it in 2017 and I think I made a good deal. But I understand and I am aware of the risks and I agree with everything you have said here! :-( I work at a rental place. We track oil life on an internal system and not vehicles oil/maintenance warnings because those are based on miles traveled and can be reset by our customers. Odds are the vehicle has a miles counter set to 5000 miles while we wait until 6 to 7k miles depending on the vehicle. Also we submit carfax records because it helps us sell our vehicles. Rental cars are abused for sure, but you know exactly what you’re buying and have access to all maintenance receipts and accident history from a trusted vender with a reputation to maintain. Fyi you probably didn't need to change the oil. The car would have been fine. Well, for purposes anyways. Bad for engine life but I doubt it would have stopped working on your trip. +1 for the attitude of the rental place, but worth noting that most modern cars, even those with 10k change intervals, still have TONS of life left in the oil at change time. Source: have sent in multiple high mileage oil samples for lab analysis. Most 10k sample have life left for 15k or more. Oil change + boyfriend change. Sounds like it all works out! Do not be surprised when you are traded in for a newer model, sparkles. My ex and I rented a car and thankfully the hot girl that works with her helped us get it ready for the trip or we might have been stuck together for years. I ended up dumping my ex and trading her in. For this hotter model. Did I mention the new girl is a fashion model!? Upgrade!!! I thank the lord everyday that she helped us out before we took this trip. What do you mean by abused by the drivers? This seems to be a blanket term thrown around this thread that I don’t see any clarification for. If the cars are being maintained well then I’m not seeing what the drivers could be doing outside the scope of ordinary wear and tear through driving it. I can't speak for newer ones, but this was very true for my 2010 Santa Fe. Bought it with 75k on it, and really loved it. By 120k we started having major things go wrong. At 135k we were replacing the entire front suspension for the second time in 15k miles (almost all highway or smooth city driving). And it stopped "feeling" nice by that point too. It just felt like there were things not right when you drove it. Such a huge difference from the Toyotas we've had that go well north of 200k miles and drive like the day we got them.  I had a BMW.. I'll never make that mistake again. >Remember: if you like it and can afford it, don’t worry about other people’s opinions. I have a benz and it's so hard to remember this because everyone and their dog has something to say about it. I don't care how other spend their money, so don't mind mine. Wait till you see the guts of an Audi. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DrUD4mSvZms) I'm in a waitig room right now reading this, but had to turn of my "this person is providing advice" thought process after I read it because I kept going back and rereading the previous threads to see why that would be the case, and then I started laughing out loud. I've even heard that one a dozen times too. haha Touche! I guess it should then be mentioned it depends on the rental company and if they resell their vehicles later. But as I know of only 3 large rental agencies in the U.S. Enterprise, Hertz and Avis that sell their cars themselves we can take this as the minority case > Also we submit carfax records because it helps us sell our vehicles. Do you know if this is typical for the industry, or relatively unique? Clever lol! My coworker had nothing to do with my ex and I splitting up tho, so I really didn't trade my ex in for a newer model. My new one is a couple years older anyways, the irony lol! this was good lmao Yeppers. Knew what this was before I clicked! I had to watch this without sound. Was it actually a rental car? Man that was an adventure. Really surprised that Hyundai was in able to go anywhere on it's own after that. Replying from Portugal, bought mine from Hertz. No issues until now, very happy with my used car! No idea. The rental company I work for provides a carfax with every sale, but we generally only sell our nicest vehicles on our lots. The rest get dumped on dealership. Buying a former fleet vehicle isn’t a bad idea but if you can’t get full records then you should run away because the dealer or the fleet company is screwing you. The fleet company absolutely knows EVERYTHING that happened to that vehicle since 0 miles. I was just trying to make a joke...You explained it like you did that. yes! It looks like there may be more to this story. Click (https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=UpdateMeBot&subject=Subscribe&message=SubscribeMe%21%20%2Fr%2Fnosleep%20%2Fu%2FMaliagirl1314) to get a reminder to check back later. Got issues? Click (https://www.reddit.com/r/nosleep/wiki/nosleepautobot). The scariest line by far was "maybe I've just gotten better at it". It genuinely made my heart sink Oof the mental image of lynns face that my mind conjured up. Not loving that. It’s been a long time since I’ve been genuinely spooked… You need to GTFO OP. Go to your MIL’s house and see what else she knows. She can’t hang up on you in person. I think the professional help you need is a priest, and to stay with Chris. Chances are the two of you can still over power her bloody hell this is terrifying have you considered that maybe that's not your wife and it's some eldritch horror pretending to be her? because you said in the beginning that she told you that you creep her out sometimes too. and then she's been texting you asking where you were, during the time you switched off your phone. so maybe the creature is pretending to be you and also doing the same thing to her? just a guess. please stay safe and update us this is SO SCARY Throw the whole wife away I think by "professional help" her mother meant the US Marines, jesus fuck. Glad I read this living on the ground floor What the freshly baked FUCK Watching behind corners has got to me one of my number one fears. You've successfully creeped me tf out and made me grateful I have my tv playing so I'm not just laying here in the dark jfc You sound worried this would sound ridiculous to us, but nah. This is fucking terrifying. Honestly you’re a strong man for even attempting to help her. I would have locked her in the house and set it on fire 😟 Reading this before bed was a mistake. In all seriousness OP, go somewhere with people! Sleep in a police station lobby if you have to. Being alone will get you killed! Stay safe and keep us updated.   Chris and Rebecca, eveLynn, and Ben, your family must be full of resident evil fans. There's no rhyme... no reason... no explanation for why the FUCK is she doing THAT! I hope you are okay. I don’t think I can go back to sleep now. Or ever. This was pure suspense and terror. The imagery you used to describe her gave me chills. I want to both read it again, and never read it again. This is the scariest story I've ever read on here and I fucking hate myself for reading it...I also have so many questions. At first I thought for sure it had to be a doppelgänger or something but if so, where was your "real" wife by the end? What the fuck was up with the eyes? Did she want yours? What else does her mother know? lol why the fuck did I read this Maybe it's just me... but it almost seems like "Lynn" never wanted to hurt OP. It wasn't until Chris and Ben found "Lynn" under the bed that she got violent. She wasn't actively predatory until she noticed Chris. The whole time prior to that she seems to just be watching -- holding herself back, even. Sure she hurt Ben when the guys ran, but only after she was going for Chris. Maybe she's still in there somewhere? Perhaps possessed, but still in enough control to not hurt her husband up until that point. Instead she's been preying on animals to sate whatever dark force is making her this way. Chris was right, it's time for an exorcist. Keep us updated! (So that we know you're alive!) ITS BEEN 12 DAYS. RU OK? Welp, forget fight or flight; this is time for a win or die. Bitch’s crazy dude, get a knife or sth and call the cops  This was horrifying  Are we getting an update soon OP? :( 3AM and I guess I'm not getting any water from the kitchen tonight unless I want to see Lynn running on all fours No cap, read this last night. Today while taking a shower my wife did the *exact same thing* to me, even making the grin as big and distorted as she could. She stood outside the shower door for like 5 minutes while I washed my scalp with eyes closed. Absolutely scared the shit out of me when I saw her. She had no idea what I’d read the night before lol. Hope she didn’t catch what your wife had.. So creepy! I had to keep looking over at the supposedly sleeping body next to me, hoping with all of my might that I would not find them all O.O and grinning... She's probably found you by the phone you're writing this on, btw! Ditch it and find a new motel too... maybe in a different state? I'd visit the Mother and/or any family you can look up to find out wtf is going on! Just buy burners as you go and check your vehicle for any trackers before you leave. Good Luck OP, we're here for you!* (*In an entirely different, non-creepy way. Promise!)  okay this reminded me of THAT LADY WITH ORANGE situation that I read here so many years ago :( OP, get help...time to call a band of exorcists right now!also...fire helps! Someone turned your wife into a demon dude Like I'm not suggesting killing her with fire buuuuuut you knoooooow... Buddy, you need to take Chris up on that exorcism idea. Man this sruff is scary dude. Was anyone else picturing that creepy ass momo face when they mentioned her grinning? I think that mental imagery is what really terrified me the most. FUCK dude. Somehow you managed to make me scared of MY wife. Holy shit. I have no words... It kept getting creepier and creepier. Hope you do a follow up! i also choose this guys wife I come to this subreddit to read cool scary stuff. Last night I learned the difference between cool scary stuff and SCARY scary stuff. Hope you're okay OP. Ok, OP, just a thought, but when was the last time you saw your wife's car? You've mentioned your car, but you don't ever mention seeing, going past, or hearing your wife's car. The morning she came by your brother's house and watched you sleep, you didn't mention hearing her car. Your SiL said that your wife stopped by, but wasn't driving her car (she thought she took an Uber). You and your brother pulled up to your house, your wife was inside, but you mentioned that her car wasn't there. Are you sure that your wife wasn't in a car accident, killed, and you're dealing with a haunting?  Call an exorcist and/or kill her. That ain't your wife any longer my man. Why did I choose to read this, first thing in the morning….??? Terrifying!!! I’m never getting married now When I was little I loved horror movies and would always try to squeeze in to dark places where I would tap against walls or whisper nonsense or whatever other scare tactics I would see on shows. I never understood why people would get so mad at me but after reading this, I wonder how I didn’t get smacked more often.  I regret reading this before bed. Nice work What does her mother know? Would have been nice for her to have warned him about her lol Wait.. wait.. is the picture showing your wife hiding or something.. or is it a pic of JUST your wife???? Damnnnnnn i really wonder if the thing is really your wife or something took your wife's eyes or something Fuuuuuuck. I got goosebumps all over and I didn't know I was clenching my teeth the whole time until I felt my jaw ache. Excuse me while I turn on every light in the friggin' house. Jesus this is actually terrifying, I had to turn on my lamp half way through I am creeped out but holy fuck what a ride, especially from someone who reads a LOT here. Your wife sounds like an unapologetic Junji Ito waif monster. I'm creeped tf out and need MORE! Also why TF didn't Lynn display any of signs for over 6 years despite her mother seemingly knowing something about this?! Bro this scared the fuck out of me I think OP died y’all how the hell you type a novel while being watched The title alone scared me lol Need a part two ASAP! OP please give us an update to let us know your safe and I kinda want to know how this ends This is absolutely terrifying. The face i thought of instantly was the face from the "lights out" youtube short. So damn scary. This was pretty dang spooky The creepiest part I was picturing that creepy ass Momo Her mother has to know something. I rarely read much on this sub and usually don't finish if I start, but this... This was amazing. My whole body was so tense and I didn't realize until I was done. Good god... This story legitimately destroyed my dreams last night and triggered a small bout of terrifying sleep paralysis. The first instance of it in nearly 6 years. Get in your car and drive. Ditch your phone. Buy a burner. You need to figure out how she tracks you. Also, I fear for your brother and his wife. She knows where they live. This is way beyond the point of ‘my poor wife needs help.’ You’re clearly in some kind of Junji Ito manga and your blood is splattered all over the final pages if you don’t act... NOW. I have not been this genuinely frightened in a good long while. I’m scared to look around my bedroom. Yo wife off de perc The creepiest story I have read on here by a long shot... Someone please, please, please draw an interpretation of Lynn Done with showers.... Your life as you knew it is over. Get to your bank and tell them that you need everything you have in all of your accounts, and then leave and never go back. Police etc are pointless here. Just make sure you have ID and get the hell out of where you are. Even then it might not be enough. All you can do is try. And, seriously, leave that hotel right now if you haven't already. Remember your first responsibility is to yourself. That thing with the neck and the jaw is not your wife. This isn't a movie and you have no plot armour, so forget about her mother and whatever she knows. You, gone, now. So spooky! So suspenseful! One of the best things I've read on here in a while This story fully pulled me in, and I could not stop reading Is it just more or did this give anyone else skin walker vibes? Man im saying it now even tho ive never experienced love between 2 people. She needs more than an exorcism. I dont know what. But, use physical force now. Shes not going to hold back, so neither should you for the next time she lunges at you Jesus Christ I am horrified This hits awfully close... I was once extremely fearful of my own home. I kept having a reoccurring dream that would start with me waking up in the middle of the night to investigate a noise made in the kitchen (always starts the same way). However, everytime i made my way downstairs, I was always pulled toward the basement (unfinished basement). I would then preemptively go to find a place to hide. After a while, if I was successful in escaping whatever it was I was hiding from, I'd make my way towards the garage. There i would find my family and friends having a good time, but no one notices me. As i step through the door into the garage, my arm gets yanked from behind and I would get pulled back in while I sceam for my family. Turning back to look, it will always end with a man staring me down with a wide open grin. Every time I had that dream, it would be different scenarios in the basement. But i would always lose. Over a decade had past and i have since moved from that house. That house had something haunting about it, it truly has disturbed me to this day. Hope OP has an easy recovery, mentally. Is there any updates to this story? Is this guy still alive?! Use gun, and If that don’t work use more gun It's been so long since I've felt such a strong sense of dread and terror from a post here. Wow. I'm sitting here reading this kinda freaking out just waiting for the end so I can give some advice and to see what others said to do in this situation...then I see the sub it's in. Talk about godam breathing a sigh of relief. are you still alive op Scariest thing I’ve read in a long, long time 😳 OP, you need to get real professional help. I don't think police and doctors will be enough, pretty sure your MIL was talking about supernatural professionals. Idk why everyone is acting like this is some story, you're in serious danger. I think your wife is possessed by something, something that doesn't care too much about the health and wellbeing of its host. This is the horror I’ve been looking for, I’m just sorry that it’s at yours and your wife’s expense. I think somewhere near the beginning, you said - and I paraphrase, “I don’t know what possessed her….” I think you should start there. Nightmare fuel. Nonononononononono. This was scarier than I thought it would be. I actually freaked out when I saw my cat looking at me while reading this. Dude, you say you love horror and yet it didnt occur to you that your mother in law was refering to exorcist maybe? Yes i know its not something you expect to happend to you but if my bf starts collecting eyes and run on all fours like animal in yeeting him in holy water just in case before i call mental institutions. Also how did her mother know? Is this something that happend before? Are we going to deal with dis periodically? If so why didnt anyone tell you?! Like the fuck? We know she hate you but let you get killer by her once in while possessed daughter is no joke. Good luck dude Omg. I need to know where she’s peeking now, OP. Nervously awaiting your next update! I’m reading this at 3 am and just turned to over my girlfriend staring at me and smiling. I freaked out and she said it was “because I was cute” This is the scariest thing I’ve ever read and that one moment might have been the most scared I’ve ever been Until death do you part 👀 I think I'm sleeping at my parent's tomorrow. I'm scared of your wife sir. Does anyone know if this man is ok???!?! You both should just have sex, problem solved so glad i started reading this as the sun was coming up and not earlier this morning Holy Hell! What has gotten into Lynn? Maybe MIL means professional help like an exorcist? I’m so glad I didn’t read this at night I can’t remember the last time I was scared in the shower. I’m a grown ass woman and tonight, I had the most unrelaxing shower I can remember having thinking about your wife. Not mine. Yours. This brick house of a story got me good. Running away on all fours? Nah. When I first saw how long I thought I’d never get through it. Before I knew it it was over and my mind was racing with the scariest imagery. Truly no sleep. Hope you’re ok and got yourself to a safer situation! Good luck! I kept saying “shut the FUCK up chris” 😂 “jeez louise lynn ya playin checkers in there??” Like SHUT UP CHRIS UR GONNA GET US KILLED WITH YOUR SARCASM AND QUICK WIT! The mother in law knows something, and if she does why the fuck won’t she help? OP in my opinion find an area with no trees or obstacles, bring a generator, at least four flood lights and a coffee machine. Either that or go to the ISS What the fuck dude.. This is the first time i read a story with so much attention.. Hope you are doing good mate this is genuinely the scariest thing i’ve read on here. holy fuck OP, you need and old priest and a young priest. Wow. Fuck this, but in like, the best way possible This is what its like owning a cat. In case anybody is having trouble picturing someone peeking at you https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.reddit.com/r/distressingmemes/comments/s32tg7/mom_why_does_your_skin_look_like_that/&ved=2ahUKEwjhwqWA7JD2AhVpQEEAHW-0AAsQjjh6BAgSEAE&usg=AOvVaw2HKCoguQnk1RG_cHmzzqn- wait soo did she take her own eye out? or… Oh no, the very first second I read the title as: "My wife has been *peeing* at me from around corners and behind furniture." 😆 Bro get a gun or something Amazing work writing this so well when you're scared out of your mind! Can I suggest you head to a mental health ward and wait there for her to turn up? Bait her into the building and eventually she'll wind up committed and can finally get some help. This story literally kept me up last night afraid to get out of bed and pee. I am 42 years old. Thank you OP, you jerk. This is actually one of the scarier things I’ve read on here. I’m not normally good at visualizing things in my head, but that part where she was in the closet was so disturbingly clear in my mind. I hope things get better for you and Lynn, my guy. Hope you find a solution. Your wife is a psychopath and she has been planning all this for years. Your wife is not there. She never has been. Only a monster thirsty for blood and the thrill of pursuing prey. OMFG Fucking hell This is fucking terrifying. More!! Move your ass Ben, get the hell out of there!! I don’t think that’s your wife anymore, but whatever it is it probably tracked your phone, maybe even your car. Go to your brother’s house, there’s strength in numbers, and get yourself a weapon too. Marianne knows more than she’s letting on, she has experience, why else would she be upset and think you were pranking her? If you go see her, don’t go alone. I really hope all goes well, good luck! Told my wife about this story… She proceeds to peak at me around corners all day. Going to be a long weekend I could not read all of this, I was in tears. Laughing so damn hard. Bc I found you. Again. in the first big instance…. lynn left to go to a friends house. feel like real lynn definitely did go since her car was never in the picture again.. second big had her peering through the window, and chris said it looked like a small animal had been outside the window.. and then with all the eyes, including small animals eyes?????? this isnt your wife no more op This was a bad freaking idea to read this at 3am....in the dark!!!! Omg I'm so scared. It's been so long since I read such a good scary story. Now to watch some cartoons and sleep 😅 I just know it’s grippy Plot twist; the wife is writing this out Your wife is fucked up dude This is the first time in my life ive shivered from a reddit post I'm the 666th like. The title itself is beyond terrifying. Fuck Whoa! Good lord this was terrifying. Your MIL knows something. Good one OP This was great! I don’t remember the last time I read a wall of text this big. I even paused since I had to get ready for work and came back to it. Saved What the actual fuck You should have shouted, "the power of christ compels you!" over and over. I don't know, it would've been worth a shot. You should write stories for a living. You had me on the edge of my seat the entire time. I wish you and your wife the best though. Hopefully you get her the help she needs Congratulations to whoever actually read this whole thing. Who has a closet in their bathroom? Holy crap, this was freaky. Keep us updated, man. One simple answer to this problem, glock 17 and a self defense case This genuinely freaked me out No sleep for me. Oh MAN this got under my skin, of course I'd read it just before sleeping... Bro am I the only one who got chills just reading the title alone? Holy crap OP. MIL might have meant like an exorcism or spiritual expert, because I think there’s something else going with your wife that isn’t related to mental health. what the actual fuck I thought for SURE Chris was a goner Got a new April fools prank for my fiance, thanks for this. Oh my fucking god…… clearly her mum knows something. Could be something that runs in the family. Just keep running dude. Please update us OP if you are still alive. I don't think your wife is human anymore. Maybe she is and something 'broke' in her mind. Either way. Good luck and God speed. Dude , I love my wife to bits but I would throw her of a bridge if she did this to me. Burn the witch brother! OP, i think your wife is under demonic possession & your MIL is aware but is afraid to witness this perhaps due to some traumatic history. She deff knows something. go to your MIL. Don’t go back home, stay with Chris from now on. My cat picked the worst possible time to go behind the curtains while I was reading this 🙃 Dude, I keep thinking that this isn't actually your wife - maybe a shapeshifter that's attached to her or stg? Maybe since childhood, which is why her mother knew? Very worrying that she's actually left the house (in her car), I hope she went someplace safe... Could you try to call her while you're feeling "watched"? See if she picks up? Or track her with her phone, check if she actually was with her friends and not hiding in the bathroom? In any case, time to visit MIL to get some serious recommendations on "professional help" I think. The cops told you not to be alone, dude Writer, you should know that this is genuinely the most scared I have been from reading a r/nosleep in a long, long time. Kudos, I feel like a child looking under my bed for a smiling woman. this is the only time I’ve ever commented on a nosleep post and definitely the first time I’ve subscribed for updates. scary as shit   ok but i want to know whats wrong with his wife? is she possessed? is she just playing a prank? is she going insane? i need answers This was actually terrifying absolutely terrified. Just the mental images are taking over me. I really hope there’s an update soon. Hooked  AHHHH finally something that is actually horrific!! Thanks for the nightmare fuel, I will be eagerly dreading the next post! I joined this sub today and immediately forgot about it. Got me good - that was truly terrifying. Your MIL clearly knows something!!!!! Call her again and local priest! Oh lord this was a rollercoaster of emotions and my anxiety is through the roof now. Wtf. This is the scariest post I’ve ever read here. OP, GET THE FUCK OUT OF THE STATE. GO TO YOUR MIL HOUSE. NOW. Poor Chris and Rebecca....I hope they stay safe. Great story! Not me being afraid to go to the bathroom at work after reading this 😫😭 I'm definitely not sleeping tonight, that's freaking terrifying! Wtf man, orange juice at 2am? My cat does this to me. Just looked over to find my dog staring at me and it creeped me the fuck out. I'm sorry but once your wife has gone goblin mode it's irreversible. You're going to want to consult a genre savvy professional -- do you have a friendly local game store? They've done the homework here and will have some practical advice about organizing a response. I too, fear your wife. I showed my gf this story and now she’s saying she’ll start doing it… regret.  Update please... The kitchen island was almost the scariest one for me! When I tell you that my eyes were watering the whole time you better believe it I’ve never read something that left me with all my nerves tingling. But this did. So congrats OP, creepiest shit I’ve ever read Damn, son, better exercise your 2nd amendment right and get a flamethrower or something. This is genuinly terrifying Dude honestly holy fuck. I need an update please  this story legit made me watch around for minutes now i'm shitting myself Freaking terrifying!! oh my fucking god Terrifying Stay safe man, you got this! Damn. This was super creepy. This is so spooky. Something is not right, the mother should have warned you or help you if she knew something. This will help not only you but ger daughter. You should further investigate if you want to help your wife. HOLY FUXK Oh Jiminy Criminy, Grinnin' Lynn has me shooook. I'm gonna be up for the next week just double, triple, and octuple-checking every nook & cranny for those eyes (and any others she may have accumulated in recent days). Holy shit, her mum definitely knows something about this. I recommend sending the police to her mums house, she'll have some information about it and maybe Lynn is there. Im sorry this happened to you, stay safe. My heart is in my throat. This is legitimately terrifying. GET AN EXORCIST. Holy hell. The fact that this story ended with it not being over is fucking with me. I am obsessed with the disturbing b list horror movie genre and this is a hands down vhs, Blair witch project, paranormal activity, ohh hell to the f* nah man. If you survive this shit-and I concur, make that momma talk, get right with your Jesus, burn some sage, have her committed, public places, leave the country, put your thing down flip it and reverse it tf on up out of there. That is from satan! Jesus be with you man hope your Emily rose situation turns out better than the movies and she doesn’t like murder one of your friends or family members who are trying to help you just bc they were in the way or some shit. Fuck man the devil is alive go to church and just stay there. Bet crazy bitch don’t go in there. I don't know why but I felt this would be some high quality pants shitting. God dammit if my wife fucking does any hiding and peeking out at me until I forget this story imma flip. Tell that woman mind her damn business.  You must have had an awful lot of time to have typed this all out after the whole ordeal. Mother of GOD that was freaky. Change your name and leave the country. That's the only option at this point Sounds like my kinda Gal. I thought this was going to go in the direction that the husband was actually completely insane and paranoid and the wife was worried all this time and he had been seeing all this stuff and then the story would deal with the everyday life after that, in which the husband is waiting for something to happen..but it never does..annnnd cliffhanger fine, from now on i look under my bed again every night From sleepy to creepy to troubling deepy Go to her mums house. She probably has a list of heavily-armed exorcists. Starts out with gaslighting, progresses to The Ring. Well, fuck. Holy moly! I wish a girl would look at me the way this guys wife looks at him... At times, I had to read this, sentence by sentence as I was truly shitting myself I wish I read the comments before reading this You can't make that shit up! Horrifying man. May safety be with you and your wife find peace. Damn Call your wife's friend and see if she's there. Her car isn't home so maybe she isn't. Maybe this monster isn't your wife, never was. You never ran after her/it when you caught her peeping. One time your wife was sleeping when you got back to bed. "girl from the gap" vibes Are we sure that this crazy Lynn isn't some sort of creepy doppelganger? Normal Lynn acted like OP was pulling pranks on her too and her car is still gone. What if while a creepy doppelganger scares OP, OP's creepy doppelganger is scaring Lynn? Bruh. Fuck this shit. You need to move to another country I would go somewhere with a lot of people. I would fear being alone right now… She typed alone in her bedroom in an empty house This is my first time reading a post here and I think this will be my last unless you survive and write a follow up. Please be safe and I hope you can get your real wife back. Damn... Your wife is turning into Momo. You better listen to your mother in law and quickly seek out those hide and seek professionals before it's too late.  Jeez man this is some super scary real shit “Low Battery” notification has never made me almost pee myself before… I hope all is well, OP. If we don’t hear from you soon, we will assume the worst! I’m at work. It’s 4:00pm, the sun hasn’t set yet. There’s a puppy on the couch next to me. I’m scared despite the fluorescent lights above my head. This is genuinely the scariest thing I've read on here in a LONG time - I remember the Mold series giving me this same fear years ago. Holy fuck. now why the fuck did i read this at 3:33am ?? fuck That’s a skinwalker, fits the description and the running away on all fours, guess it must’ve gotten attached to you Omg Please please please tell me you will update us? I keep checking back but I'm getting worried I’m scared for you, OP. This doesn’t seem like it’s gonna end well. I'm four days late but am leaving a comment just to be a part of this historical post. This is the creepiest shit I have read here, and I have read plenty. Stay safe, OP. Your mother in law clearly knows something! Is it weird that I'm turned on by this This is complete horror... average ex encounter I hope that you are okay OP. Please update us when you can How am i supposed to sleep after reading this at 1:47 am shit is crazy I would of gotten the glizzy This story genuinely scared me.. bitch get a fuckin priest cool now i am TERRIFIED to take a shower Call a priest man BRO WTF!?!?!?!? Dude, I hope you’re safe are you okay? did you get away from her? She’s needs an exorcism Saaame oh man. That got me good. Yep. The image I got in my head made my skin crawl. I was picturing like a momo face. I literally could not picture anything but the "Obsessive Girlfriend" meme girl. Momo? yup, Momo I imagined something to the likes of Jeff the Killer image + the overly attached girlfriend image and yep same All I could think of was the killers face at the end of sleepaway camp Lol I imagined Casey anthony Yup, that's what I was thinking! Hopefully she doesn't get her creepy from her momma... Makes me miss the original creepy pastas man. This story is amazing NO WHAT, did you hear the MIL he even said she was trying to keep up a steely persona Lynn was obviously watching her You'll need a young priest and an old priest. And a flamethrower for good measure. And possibly an opthalmologist. Nah the professional help he needs is a shotgun Yes, that's what I was thinking too! The real wife is out there, just as terrified and confused about what is happening to her husband. Although, the mom seems to know something so I wonder if the wife's family has experience with being haunted/possessed/cursed or something like that. I thought they were going to find the real Lynn’s body when he talked about the smell. I was expecting the horrible smell in the house to be her body locked in her grandmother's trunk. Revealing that Lynn had been dead the whole time while the peeking continued. I was thinking it was a creepy twin situation like the Simpsons with Hugo in the attic and the creepy twin had gotten out of her cage but the ambiguous ending made it even more terrifying imo Exactly my thought. That's why even her car wasn't in the driveway. That’s what I thought, too, but he did directly bring it up to her when she said “maybe I’ve just gotten better at it,” so she is aware. this is the scariest fucking thing i’ve read on here in forever This scared the shit out of me. But I couldn’t stop reading. Jesus. Yeah my thoughts exactly. This shit was legit scary af, I'm actually terrified...Funny how my mil is also named Marianne and my wife is pretty serious too. Although no peeking from her for God's sake. For real my heart is in my throat and I don’t think I breathed since Lynn came to Chris’ 😅 i’m also aroused by this guys wife LMAOO I think her mother meant the Vatican holy fuck But do you have a closet? 😱 I am no longer leaving from under my blanket till someone comes into my room I swear I had the same thought. Burn the house down, WITH HER(IT) IN IT!   Aren't they common names? read it again??? I just wanna forget I've ever read this is too much fml true horror All the unanswered questions REALLY gave me the creeps 🥺 I thought it was a doppelganger at first as well because he says she "left" but then she was in the bathroom with him. The fact that she also seemed to have no idea what he was talking about to start with too. Now I have no clue what is going on unless she is possessed or something. I was expecting his wife to be in the closet not eyes It's definitely similar to the alters in Mandela Catalogue! I would've liked it if it took the direction that its actually a doppelgänger and his real wife doesnt know who keeps staring at him at night etc. Genuinely happy that I stopped reading after the 2nd incident. Comments seem to confirm that was a good choice and I‘m not going back there that’s for sure get a gun. That’s what I was thinking. Turn this into an anime, it gave me that hopeless feeling of not being able to help your one & only person you need. Kinda like the first episode of demon slayer. the movie would be called "_____* eyeballs" or "grinning" or smt like that *this would be the number of eyeballs OP saw Ok OP assuming you're still alive... 1) Yes, buy burners. Though I have a feeling she could still find you anyway, without your phone... 2) You need some kind of exorcist or paranormal investigator immediately. Get away from her -- it -- and find someone who fights demons, now. 3) What do we think is going on here? From the weird gurgling sounds and moans, which alternate with the demented giggles, it seems that your wife might still be in there somehow, struggling to get out from under this thing's control. Or is this some kind of shapeshifter that's mimicking her? OP, what do you think? Finally, the eyes. You mention that her eyes are always wide and unblinking....are they definitely her eyes? Could it be that the thing has somehow managed to shapeshift into her body but couldn't replicate the eyes....so it has been "borrowing" other eyes it has collected? Just spitballing here. If anyone has any ideas that can help OP, let's collect them here. yep i agree, GO TO THE MOTHER. She knows something........ something important  Do you have that story saved somewhere and would like to link it with me? I would love to read that aswell  But in the very last moments in the house his brother saw Linn as well as she rushed them. Shes alive and very posessed, in my opinion. But I do agree, the car thing is weird and has been mentioned several times. At least you didnt read it at 1:48 AM like I just did.😥 Thats why wife always ushered OP off every time. So it didn't come up in conversation that she is a psycho-creeper that collects the eyeballs of small animals on occasion. Why do you say that? Yes please. That would be fucking amazing Never again I'm wanting updates too. It was 12 days ago this was posted, something more has to have happened If gun doesn't work, use fire. If fire doesn't work, use nuke. If nuke doesn't work, you're fucked. Wondering why we haven’t been updated. 😟 *waiting on pins & needles* 😥 I keep looking but no update yet. man fuck you for showing me this shit I was gonna make a joke but man I can't this is just, terrifying Fuck I believe that it was taken somewhere so that he would think she wasn’t home therefore he’d be more comfortable going into the house. Linen closet. I thought this too! And maybe she has experienced this? Something about her being so hesitant on the phone and that shaky breathe soemhw.made me think that Lynn was paying her a visit...  Not sure how much that's going to help. The wife sounds like she has advance ninja skills. Pretty sure the mother was hiding something about her daughter which she dared not speak. Lynn probably had similar episodes in the past when she was younger and had to seek out the so called 'professional help'. On the other hand a doppelganger might not be completely out of the question since the family car's missing. She’ll probably find him there too I carry everywhere I go. Can't say I would ever have the power to shoot my wife though. Fuck that's a scary thought Omg same. I hate momo but I couldn't stop thinking about it. It made reading this even more terrifying I don't know why but I imagined that One Billy elish album cover...  Same me too lol Same. Same, that but way creepier I think wife creeped on her mother her whole childhood. Who wouldn't be a bit on the offensive if you had to raise a child like that, you'd never be able to sleep! It makes sense why MIL acts the way she does and can't help her daughter, she's already tried. Also why wife would usher OP off, so fast so mom wouldn't accidentally let it slip; had to "keep up apperances" for as long as possible. I get the feeling momma was very happy to dump Lynn onto OP, and that she never wants contact with her "daughter" afaun I read this with the cadence of a poem. Took another read though to realize it wasn’t a weird haiku…. This story just really messed me up so bad I can’t even read right. I'd be on the lookout for HER version of the facts to pop up on nosleep any time now... Hopefully it won't start with "My HB has been murdered and robbed of his eyes in a motel after acting weird for weeks" lol Sorry OP! The mum definitely knows something. I don’t think the wife is out there somewhere tho like a separate being. I think they’re the same but that persona or spirit or whatever took over her body and it probably happened before when she was too young to remember aswell. That’s why her mother knows about it but she doesn’t want to experience the same thing she did years ago so she’s distancing herself from her daughter. I was thinking that the MIL seemed to want to end the conversation because Lynn has been there, telling her the same things but reversed. Perhaps something trying to get between the two. Maybe the real wife already got deduced to eyeballs. Cuz Op said she texted differently than she used to. ngl same, and the actual outcome had me wishing it was Lynn's body lol I thought it was going to be a massive pile of shit I thought something similar: that OP had a psychotic breakdown, killed his wife, and suppressed the memory. But my god, it was way worse than that. Creepy as fuck. Something like a skin walker. Not even his wife, just her eyes... Now I’m checking behind stuff to make sure that guy’s wife isn’t there.  Me too!! I’m glad I read this but I literally had to pause to breathe Right! Best fucking story in a LONG time Well, no peeking that you have noticed in any case. make sure not to show her the shining Its cuz she hasn’t watched the shining yet.... oooo...... Yo I definitely thought she was trying to take out his eyeballs. Yes, and my bed is one of those beds where you can lift thé mattress bc there’s storage space underneath They are but everyone in this story is named after a resident evil character I’m pretty sure in the beginning she didn’t deny creeping on him, she just tried to downplay it and laugh it off. I saved it for later so I can read it during the day. But this is about where I stopped too. All these comments are freaking me out, but it’s making me want to read it even more. It isn’t THAT scary. It is a really good story though you should read it through Well you don’t get to not be afraid, the husband went to a motel and got a a text from an unknown number that said “I found you” Seriously? Live horror is infinitely better than anime.  Oh wow your last point about the eyes sent (even more) chills down my spine - love that theory That makes more sense than my theory of the eyes being a offering for her husband like a cat that brings you dead animals (https://www.reddit.com/r/nosleep/comments/10nadn/i_am_a_grown_logical_man_crying_tears_of_horror/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3) here it is!! this is one of those classic NoSleep posts that made me start checking out the sub..hope you'd like it :) 2 days later and I’m still emotionally and mentally scarred lol. But in the best kind of way. I don’t think her ushering him off would have made a difference. If the mom ever really wanted him to know the truth, she had 6 years to tell him. I couldn’t help but imagine it as Lynn from Bob’s Burgers. I hope OP is okay 😶 He who clicks the link must deal with the shit he sees homseprung Well , my only other plan is laying down and crying like a baby. Yup, that's what I was thinking too! For sure the wife did that to her mom when she was younger. Well, at least she survived, and her daughter reverted to normal for at least 3 years... MIL needs to give the contact of the "help" she's been using. Thanks for giving me even more nightmare fuel! I thought she knew about a mental break or something when I read it last night; but thinking about a child, YOUR child, acting like that for years... I can't. Makes me wanna be r/childfree. Zombie kids have nothing on that O.O No sleep no way.....I couldn't keep a child like that . Wish I had a bf for this rn im scared and I Iive in a haunted house fudge.... ... or what if she knew her Mom would do it when they met, and it gets worse with age so she had to keep contact brief? It's really creepy to think this might be a learned behavior or something lol Like what if the Mom joins her in the game and then there is two grown adults acting like creepy perverted psychos O.O I wonder why she took so long to start acting up again if thats the case. More like, differently than he'd expect given that he just had had a "conversation" with her. He says he's surprised/annoyed that she doesn't mention their earlier interaction and acts as if everything is normal... Pretty strong hint that OP is being stalked by some sort of shape-shifter that just likes to take the appearance of his wife. Even if they did find the wife's body, it doesn't automatically mean the husband killed her. It's more likely that something killed and replaced her. Don't rush to the conclusion that it's always the husband's fault. I also fear this guy's wife. I am also hiding from this guy's wife. I also am checking for this guys wife ;) I kept checking the door, windows, and mirrors around me while I was reading. Every little thing that moved around me made me jump right!! I didnt even realize I was covering my mouth through half of this I didn't remind myself to breathe until this comment... Now I'm happy that i live in a college dorm room on the 6th floor with a loft bed and an open closet. No places for creepy people to hide!! oooof. Bro it’s currently 2:08 am and I read this and I feel fucking terrified, I live in a pretty rural area so I can hear the wind outside or my chair squeaking and this has officially scared me more than seeing a big ass spider above me on the ceiling at 3am I’d normally agree but Junji Ito would like a (https://m.imgur.com/gallery/rurd0MP) Damn that’s creepy as shit, I had troubles falling asleep yesterday after this story, I will probably have troubles falling asleep again after reading this one now ;P Thanks for sharing it, was amazing to read! I've been feeling creeped out since I read this story, and every time my husband gets home at the time he usually always gets home, I get jump scared. And then yesterday I was taking a shower with the door open, the glass was a bit fogged up but the room was dark, and I felt like I was being watched. Lmao when is this going to stop?😅😭 Oh wait, what if the mom is like that, too? Hopefully they'll fight each other to death, or just "play" together, here you go, problem solved-ish lol I survived my last EX,with sanity intact....i'm not scared here She’s nimble and crazy. I’m aroused.  There isnt a work able to come into existence for how scared OP is  Junji Into is an exception, not the rule. I do love his work, but I still want to see this particular story live action. you're welcome!!Happy scares :D Never 😐😐😐😶😶😶 They both have that same smile…. Be weird if you weren't!! I’d agree. This particular story would work well in a slow-building “Hereditary” kind of way. A lot of horror lurking in the background out of focus while the main character shambles about. The type that rewards second viewing wherein you can see the smiling wife deep in the background in nearly every frame. Happy scares and spooky scares to you too! ^^ After 14 years, if they take away RIF, I'm done. I refuse to use the *awful* official app. If they force me to, I'll just be done with reddit Apollo user and 9 years on the platform. I support the boycott effort and, should Apollo go dark, will be gone  I'm getting the same vibes from reddit as I did Tumblr banning adult content. And we all know what happened there. I was spending too much time on social media anyways. They're making it easy for me to reduce that time! reddit's value is in its user-modded communities, admins are heating up the water to cook their golden goose with this idiotic move. rif for life. ✊ I’m On. Narwhal right now and have been using it the entire time I e been on Reddit. I hate the reddit app. I do about 95% of my redditing through (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=free.reddit.news&referrer=utm_source%3DrelayFree%26utm_medium%3Dcomment%26utm_term%3Dorganic) Hell, if I'm sat at the computer, I'll often pull my phone out to look at Reddit on that rather than the website. I'm not going to get the Reddit app. If I can't use Relay, 95% or more of my Reddit use stops, too. Oh good, yet another reason to get off this site. And I 100% mean that, I can doom scroll on Twitter and insta just as easily. When you take away 3rd party apps from users, just remember THE USERS BRING YOU YOUR CONTENT REDDIT!!!! -Comment posted from Reddit Is Fun If Boost goes, I go. I've got a backlog of books that need reading, and games that need playing. Without Sync, Reddit is dead to me. The crazy thing is the the official app has been made exponentially worse in the last year. What on earth is the plan when you fuck up your own offering while simultaneously blocking everyone else’s?? Reddit’s app is garbage. I will leave if forced to use it. I've been an active, daily redditor for over a decade. I have multiple accounts with over 100k comment karma, and I help moderate a few different subs. If/when RIF is Fun dies, so does Reddit for me. The *USERS* are Reddit. The content, the discussion, the entire experience comes from the community, NOT the owners. I cannot abide participating in anything that chooses to shit on the hand that feeds them. The time to save Reddit was years ago, when they went full corporate, or when (https://i.redd.it/kwi8aw2w0qq51.png) We've let it go too far, because now they are just a faceless corporation, like the rest. Reddit went from a 10 billion dollar worth to 300 million in five years. They've done this by making their platform more vendor friendly and less user friendly. My guess is they intend to remove the users and make it a vendor platform - maybe 'little amazon' or something. Oh, and they're pissed off they didn't sell while the price tag was in the billions, so now we've got waves of admin whose only goal is censorship and forming reddit into a younger demographic facebook. and it shows. I think that is a nice show of support but change won't happen because people take a 48 hour break. Maybe start at 2 weeks if we want real change. I used the official app for about a week a few years ago and it used up my entire monthly 10gb data allowance in about 2 hours of browsing. Great app. I've literally only used RIF since I started using reddit so if that's out, me too Fuck reddit and the venture capitalist boomer bitches for forcing this What are the quality of life features I’m missing out on? I’ve only ever used the app so I’m ignorant I've been using Relay the entire time I've been on reddit, if they kill my ability to use it, I'm done. It really is so nice to see so many of you using RiF. I thought the userbase was way smaller! Bacon reader user here. I'm out too. I was on /r/earthporn many years ago when the SFWporn collection of subreddits was more popular. Always liked this subreddit. Thank you for standing up for accessability and site-accountability. After watching the Snazzy Labs video interview with Christian Selig, it became very apparent that Reddit would not have become what it is without third party apps. I've personally been using Narwhal for years and its my most used app by a long margin. I love Reddit and the community... and third-party apps are part and parcel. You shouldn't be forced to have one without the other considering they grew together. Man Baconreader is the best! Guess I’m done with this site. I fully support any form of boycotting this unreasonable gouging of third-party apps. Damn. This is literally the only social media app I have left. Ugh. I personally don't trust this guy, why should we believe someone in the pocket of Big Soup? *should* we try to raise awareness and fight this, or should we let reddit kill itself and move on to something else? I'll admit, the past two days I have started thinking positively about what life without Reddit could be like, spare time and motivation and whatnot..I've wasted over ten years here, no regrets, was fun, but...time for a change maybe. Someone please make an iOS app for Lemmy. Infinity user here Pardon my French. The Reddit app fucking sucks. If they eliminate Apollo, I’m done with Reddit. I’ll probably get a lot done in my life and will have a more productive life actually. I've been using Bacon Reader with various accounts for years. I will straight up be done with Reddit if they go through with this. Money over user experience. I came here years ago because Digg did the same. That site was dead within a week after they implemented the changes. Reddits path won't be that radical I presume but it's a sign of things to come. I've been meaning to take up just reading books. I want to improve myself and set a good example for my son. Now seems like a good time to start. They're going to do it, whether people want it or not. Meh. If they do I just won’t use Reddit as much. Too much time on Reddit probably a problem for all of us. The occasion I’m on a desk top… I can scroll for a few minutes. And that’s it. I use narwhal. If it goes away… I get some productivity back. Thank you mods! Longer black out. 2 days isn't shit for them According to a post from lotrmemes, it'll affect bots too. One of the bot creators over there said the new system will cost him $20/month per bot and he's not interested in paying to keep doing what's supposed to be a fun hobby. If I open BaconReader and it does not load, I am done on my phone forever...which is ~98% of my time on this site. Kill old Reddit and I am gone forever. This site has been going downhill for a decade or more. Our community needed a replacement years ago. I’ve been here 10 years. I’ll get rid of this account immediately if they pull this. Not a chance I’m sticking around. I found reddit through RIF, its the only way I've ever used it. While I'm not saying I'm done with the platform....I wont use it 99% of the time like I did before. This was the least invasive app I've had in a long time. Can’t wait till their IPO tanks. Strange that they don't want us using reddit anymore? They obviously know there's going to be a massive decline in reddit traffic after they do this. Don't they pay someone to tell them if an idea is bad or not? Is he on holiday this week or something? I've been using rif for years, I hate using the reddit app and will stop using reddit if rif no longer works. Not using reddit without RIF. No RIF app = no reddit for me. Simple as that. I'll be done with Reddit if I can't use the app I'm currently using. I'm not going to their shit official app and I basically exclusively use Reddit on my phone. I'll just get my memes from Instagram and Facebook What are these quality-of-life features that i am missing out on? I will never end up using Reddit if I’m forced to use the official app tbh Is this a confirmation that this sub is going to join in the protest? It's a great explanation of what's going on, but says nothing about what this specific sub will be doing. Reddit is just some kids in a garage away from being irrelevant anyway. This change will just speed that process. Not sure why it hasn’t happened already with the numerous scandals and mismanagement that have already occurred. I mean discord, aficionado websites, and you tube already pretty much replace it. Until now it’s just been an “I can’t quit you” relationship I have had with reddit. But I actually can quit you and will if you continue to do stupid things like this. #reddit_is_stupid No RIF, no old.reddit (with RES), no me. I'm telling my friends, too. Thanks for posting! I've been looking for a way to cut down on Reddit time, so this might be a blessing in disguise for me. Wish the reddit stock was publicly listed, would have shorted it with life's savings. Relay user here. This situation sucks. Digg -> Reddit -> ??? I’m in, I could use a break anyway. I’ve heard people say that this is Reddits plan to lower the price after backlash to look like the good guys. Honestly unless it’s back to free or cost pennies then screw Reddit. Just because your app sucks doesn’t mean you charge the people who make apps to fix all of Reddits problems and that help retain users The Reddit app is garbage. They're totally going with Google's strategy concerning YouTube on mobile devices. I guess in a few years we'll have to watch two ads every time we open a post too. Twitter did the same thing earlier this year but somehow I thought Reddit had more integrity. I know it's echoing the same sentiments as everybody else but the only reason i still use reddit is because I don't have to use that awful app. The moment they do this, I am gone. I love RIF more than reddit itself I've been here since the beginning of Reddit when half the front page links were about Noam Chomsky. I've seen sites die due to the usability, freedom and openness of Reddit pulling their users away. While Reddit might think they're the only kid on the block they're really not, there's so much more pulling attention from people now and if long time users feel like they're losing the entire reason they're here they'll without a doubt leave. This is the first time a threatened exodus hasn't been politically motivated like the past ones to Voat so it'll be interesting to see what happens if they don't listen. I just want to use an open source app, not the official out of the Google play store. Damn. No, let Reddit rot. About time this site falls apart. i currently use the official reddit app (due to cheapness) and don’t like it for the following reasons: * so many ads/promoted posts, and particularly the huge ones like that pete davidson campaign a while ago. even if you block the user posting the fake post, you’ll keep seeing ads from them. i don’t think even twitter is that stubborn. they should at least be forced to keep the comments on so they know how we feel * every time it invents a new kind of notification, it opts you in by default and turns a bunch of your other notifications on. IG is an offender in this regard but they only turn on the new ones, not old ones. imagine being LESS considerate than facebook in 2023 * about a third to half of the time in “popular” i tap on a thing and it takes me to an entirely different post. i only get where i was intending to go by hitting the back button or otherwise reverse-swiping out * and more i’ll be joining the blackout in solidarity with devs who for whatever reason appear to care more about making good apps than reddit does—and also, just joining on principle. there are too many examples of greed running things into the ground in this day and age (political corruption, union busting, housing, big pharma patent gridlock, the US healthcare system in general, RAMPANT INFLATION, etc) and reddit needs to understand it’s already halfway down a slippery slope and gaining speed lower your API price or lower your expectations for a bright future. reddit is already mid. don’t make it worse Really shady from the higher ups at reddit. The whole website is made by the thousands of communities (and some devs but they got fired earlier this year anyway). We should not let this happen! This is absolutely shambolic from Reddit. Third party apps are what's keeping this app actually alive and running. I personally use Relay and not the default Reddit app. Taking away the freedom and the customisation options from users is going to kill this beloved platform. Such monopoly will only lead to the demise of this app and nothing else. Hope the mods & devs of Reddit listen to our pleas and change the policy. Don't you dare kill RIF! The official Reddit app is a pile of dog shit. I downloaded it the other day to compare it to Reddit is fun (my current app) and holy sweet flying fuck do I hate it. It's like a horrible mishmash of all the other social media platforms Frankensteined together by an insane and drunk app developer who is mad at the world. Don’t they understand if they kill apps like Apollo, I won’t start using their app? I’ll just stop using Reddit. Thank you for planning a 2 day blackout. I have seen some .. excessive reactions to this, including at least one sub that has already decided they are going to burn everything down regardless of the outcome, which is really insensitive to their communities. Short blackouts have been used in the past with decent effectiveness, and aren't unreasonable for us users. I don't use third party stuff but I feel for yall that do and hopefully they change their mind. Is this decision as self destructive as Tumblr banning porn? Might be… Here we go! While this will kill the replacement apps, will it also kill the ai test/training posts from people who “are learning to code and want to know the top 10 super number one best apps for coding real good”-but misspelled? Been on Apollo for 9 years. Prob just move on with my life if they kill it. Fucking sucks but not giving into their bullshit. I normally don’t do this bust I sent a complaint to the website and to every moderator after finally downloading Apollo after years of using their shitty official app. Anything I can do to help fight greed. Yeah if I lose Reddit is Fun it is very likely I will no longer use the website on my phone. Reddit wants to self destruct, it seems. Don't know anyone who uses it on web or through the official app... I'm kinda glad actually. I've been trying to quit reddit and this will make it so much easier. I only use RIF, I don't even log onto reddit from my pc I just had 10 years, but I will legit go YouTube only. Absolutely does not bother me. If they take away boost then I won't use Reddit again. It's really that simple. I hope they do it. My life would probably be better if I spent less time on reddit. RIF goes then I'm not going to bother with messy Reddit. I have very little reason to use reddit aside from one or two subreddits. If they kill my 3rd party app (Boost) I will just stop using it. Let Reddit kill itself. It's not really helping much. Does reddit have any sort of competitors ? We supply ALL the content. Reddit exists because of us. We can torch this place just as we did to Digg when v4 launched. So many yrs on reddit but RIF has been my main app for most of those yrs. I'll likely stop using reddit if they move forward with this ridiculous move. It’s messed up that there wasn’t a push like this against the bullshit misinformation rule. Misinformation is just information that someone doesn’t want you exposed to. You didn’t fight for my cause, why would I ever fight for yours? Reddit has been going downhill for well over a decade. This is just one more step. yeah, if I've been using RIF for over 10 years probably (and am using it to type this). if they really make this insane anti-consumer move, i am definitely not using reddit anymore lmfao I hate when corporate greed sweeps through my life and usurps the joy of my daily routine. I fully support the 3rd party apps here and will also not visit Reddit after the dark event starts until this is resolved. What are some alternatives to Reddit? Is there an official, growing list that I can check out? I'm using sync pro.. And I like it been using it for 5 yrs and I can't even imagine using reddit official app 🤮🤮 Solidarity. After 9 years, if I can't use RIF, I will leave reddit for other avenues. I'm just hearing about this and I am pissed. I will simply leave for good if they choose to kill support for Baconreader and other 3rd party apps. All I'm saying is there is a reason that I spent money on a third party app... Without RIF I worry that I'll forget how to shit. Everyone should know that they're going to be making the official app even worse in short order (my guess would be unskippable ads before videos). Doing this first makes it the only option and stems the exodus from the official app to the clearly superior third party choices. Reddit is making the same mistake that Wizards of the Coast made earlier this year. They are discounting the amount of free labor, advertising, and innovation that people put into their product in order to chase a couple bucks. It ultimately shows that at best they don't understand their community (and it's immense value) or at worst they're testing the limits of how much they can exploit their community without impunity. This will significantly cut down on my screen time haha if reddit really wants people to leave, we can really go back to those 'boards' we had before, i wont mind. They were easier to use on mobile anyway than reddit.. They can take old reddit from my cold dead hands What are good alternatives to Reddit? I just use desktop but if they chose to continue down this path in gone in solidarity All the subs doing this need to go longer than just the 48 hours. It should be locked down until they reverse the bullshit decision! If they do away with the old.reddit.com desktop interface, I'll be done with Reddit. I find the new interface annoying, and I don't browse on my phone. If I knew about RIF, I would have. But it looks like that's not going to be an option now. The official app is terrible. I use Apollo now but for the longest time used Reddit is fun. Both are great app and it makes me so disappointed in Reddit trying to get rid of third party apps. I’m gone if they get rid of them. Same. This account is only 7 years old, but i've been here for 10+, all using RIF. I refuse to use the official app RIF is like 75% of my reddit browsing and has been for 12 years, the other 25% being old reddit. I have tried and used the official app - it is hot garbage. I'd rather stop using reddit. Same. I've been on RIF since 2010 (so 13 years), and I don't have much interest in the official Reddit experience at this point. Also, if all the 3P app users leave, the quality around this place is going to rapidly go downhill. I'll still browse Reddit on my computer but not on my phone if they get rid of it. Taking a shit is gonna get a little more boring 14 year vet here, as well. I’m more than ready to be done if they do this. I will be just shy of ten years, I'll miss the updates on some things but I'm ready to call it. Yeah same here. I never use Reddit on desktop, and I hate the UI of the official app. I already use Reddit less since getting a decent RSS feed app, and a good selection of feeds. 12 years after the digg Exodus, same 17 years for me. RIF and old.reddit is the only way I interact with Reddit. They go, I go. And RIF going will drastically reduce the time I spend on this site... probably a good thing tbh. I think a lot of us share this sentiment. Sounds like a lot of regular long time users here are just looking for one more good reason to shed reddit altogether from their lives and this would be it. The official app reset my privacy settings. That's the reason I'm on RIF. I changed the privacy settings, multiple times, and every single time the official app swapped back on its own to what it wants rather than what I want. That godforsaken app will NEVER be on any of my devices again. If they end up killing 3rd party apps when that is the only way that I consume reddit then maybe I'll take a break for a while. Getting tired of all the constant forced outrage over everything anyways. A break would be good. It's crazy how unusable and buggy Reddit's official app and website are. With how many people use Reddit, you'd think they could make something that actually works. My third party app *is* Reddit as far as I'm concerned. If I have to uninstall it because it doesn't work I'm not going to go download a new worse app. "Reddit doesn't work anymore, how sad." The official app is a busy mess, like Reddit vomited all over my phone. I've been using RedditIsFun for a decade. I can't imagine browsing Reddit any other way. It’s soooo bad. I use narwhal, and I think if I had to use the official app, I just wouldn’t use Reddit at all anymore? Me too, but to be honest I'm a little okay with that. Sadly, I will be doing the same. Scary part is the official app is objectively horrible and that's with massive amounts of competition. Imagine how awful it will be once it's the only option. As a former app dev, why is the official app awful?  Yarp, been on this shit since '10 Aaron schwartz the whole thing - this is the death song, if they kill the app I use its over Feel like it's been this way since Aaron anyeay I don’t understand how the official app has 4.8 stars on the iOS App Store. There has to be some fuckery going on Its not just awful, its unusable. Reddit overestimates themselves, its all user content lol, could be cloned in an hour. A significant part of me thought “good, maybe I’ll get off the damn thing”, which should tell me something.. I never installed it. I used to browse from my phone through Safari, but they pretty much made that impossible with constant pop-ups to use their POS DA app, so I quit using Reddit on my phone. I only use Reddit on my laptop. When they fuck that up, I'll be gone. I waste too much time here anyway. There's a life to live. I've only ever been using third party apps on mobile ever since I started using Reddit. The official app is absolute garbage. Is it just me or the browser version is awful as well? It freezes and takes too long to load after a while, the video player is just an anger trigger, and the comment box acts up with the formatting every now and then. I use Infinity for Android, if it gets cut off I'm out for good too. RIF, over time, replaced gaming forums for me. If this change goes ahead I quite look forward to no more Reddit and getting back to very specific, streamlined discussions. No more Karens, extra layers of geek. Actually sounds perfect as I approach my 40s. The worst of corporate barrel-scraping. Gut the competition while making no effort to improve your service. Totally. Reddit is like many things in this modern world: its convenience is its strength. Of all the things I've ever done on the daily, Reddit is something I'd gladly drop without looking back and would probably be much better for it. I'll stop using reddit the minute I have to use the official app It's literally unusable for me: it stays in portrait mode even on a tablet in landscape orientation, so it's unreadable. And I think still has the bug of crashing when you hit send, deleting the comment you just wrote. P.S. I remembered something: when you push send but you have no internet connection (which can happen pretty often) it also loses your comment. The other apps of course keep the comment in that case. Same with me. Been here nearly 12 years and same. I'll just join discords for the few communities I care to continue engaging with 🤷🏻‍♀️ I’m going back to digg! I use this on a browser with adblocks on. They arnt getting my money, just like youtube is trying to change thier policies Also the awful default reddit in a browser which is probably going to be the only browser option going forward if not then, at some point. Old reddit is the only usable option in a browser and I'm sure they're ready to kill it. They should just buy out sync or Apollo and ditch their own garbage. Then integrate chat and proper awards into it and live to see another day. Same most of my browsing is on mobile. If i do go on reddit it will be to find some answers from google I think this was Reddit’s biggest worry and they have probably been planning to do this for a while but they chose to make the decision now. Despite what we may think about them, Reddit execs are not stupid, it’s just that their incentives are shareholder returns, and not keeping every member of the community using Reddit. The trade off they’re expecting is a small number of users stop using Reddit because of this news, wait a few weeks for this to blow over, and watch most of us begrudgingly come back. I’m sure they did their market research and realized the tradeoff with the initial user loss would be worth it. I hope it dies and takes my addiction with it. It’s such s bad decision, that it’s almost like they *want* reddit to fail. Of course, the idea that the elites are scared of the information sharing and community involvement that reddit provides is just a crazy conspiracy theory. I’m sure it has nothing to do with the destruction of twitter, bans on tik tok, and other attacks on social media right now… It's so disappointing that this is where this site has gone. Agree. Hopefully the team at Fidelity r/fidelityinvestments trying to make this IPO happen has smart people paying attention to public sentiment about this. For users, the app *is* the platform. The most active users on a platform *won't* stick around with a crappy experience. Reddit users *are* the content. They create nothing of their own - we the users do. Give us a platform and a good client and this can happen anywhere. Alternatives to platforms *will* happen - many are unsuccessful but the one that catch fire are disruptors. One misstep is all it takes to bring the whole house down. This is more than a small misstep. Publicly disrespecting 3p app developers with very short notice for an outrageous price for API calls is an insult to every techie who's ever touched a keyboard here on reddit. Many of the rest, faced with only the natives app will drift away until the next platform has velocity. Pay attention to Lemmy folks. Hopefully the MBAs see the surge in total Lemmy registrations since this all started to unfold... or even in the last 4 days. Reddit may be the best game in town today but the internet is fickle. That IPO is gonna be a tough ride if even just one of the top 3p app developers combine forces with Lemmy & jump platforms. Its okay to want to make money. I agree the value of our data to train LLMs should be monetized. But i don't agree it should come at the expense of the very users creating that value for you. I love Reddit but will NOT use the native app. I'm mobile only and will not compromise to get this content. Look at my old ass account. I’ve already quit Twitter and FB, this ain’t shit. If old.reddit or my app dies I’m out. I've been using RIF for over 10 years. When I saw the news I installed the official app. Good God! What a busy monstrosity! Gives me a headache after a few minutes. My days of using Reddit appear to be counted I guess. Yeah the official app is terrible, I used Apollo, it was so good I even donated/bought it. I mean who does that for something that is essentially free? Simone who saw the official app used Apollo, and said to himself, this app is worth sending some money to the person who made it, because it’s really damn good. If they continue with their price etc, I won’t be using the site anymore. Exactly dude, if they force this shit through, I'm done too. I've been a RIF user since I started using it on phone. Can't imagine reddit without it. Official is laggy with a shitty interface. If it wasn't for RES, I would have stopped using reddit a long time ago. What are some good suggestions for alternatives? Ive used RIF for 10 years so I'm done if its done. Beyond Stumble Upon I'm not familiar with other options remindme! 5 weeks I wouldn’t say it’s about the official app being bad. It’s about having freedom to choose whatever app I want. Reddit has the resources to make their app reasonable, postpone the API changes and then later kill the API again after migrating users to their app. Or add features tha only their app would have to slowly kill the competition. >I refuse to use the awful official app. If they force me to, I'll just be done with reddit Even on mobile i just go with a browser, and "old.reddit.com" they take that option away like I'm sure they want/plan to at some point... also done with the site. Same thing with requiring email verification for accounts... i delete and recreate accounts once every few months to help maintain my personal anonymity, and to limit impact of targeted trolling, harassment, and threats to my person which have occurred in the past... issues which Reddit itself has historically done nothing about. Having to create a new throwaway email every time i make a new account is just too much effort for such low returns to bother with such. Reddit leadership want to turn the site in to the next Facebook, or twitter... they can get fucked. i figure most of us on the site like reddit specifically because the site, and the content style is not like those others. The app was fine for me but it kept draining my battery for some reason. (Top end iPhone, latest iOS) that is not acceptable. Ya i will definitely stop using it if Sync is no longer supported. This is ridiculous. I’ll take the opportunity to get the monkey off my back If they kill Apollo. The official app is garbage I won’t touch. same. I only use mobile apps to access reddit. No way I’m gonna use their garbage data harvesting app or website if they kill 3rd party apps. I use the awful official app….can confirm…. I never knew there were other apps. Which would you recommend? I agree with you and I use Sync. The problem is that the other apps are also monetizing reddit with subscriptions, so the reddit actions are legit if they want to stop others making money on their app. Maybe they should let only the free apps open. I’m low key hoping this happens. I need a break I rather use old.reddit I guess not eh  Same, dude. Seven years on this account, I gladly paid for Apollo—I’m not going back to the official Reddit app. May as we’ll be sent to Azkaban. Boost here. I'll stand with my Apollo brethren. 12 years, same Apollo is Reddit for me. The website and official client are abysmal. Been using baconreader for like 7 years, and for me, that is reddit. Now that the apps are being killed off I'm hearing about all these other alternatives. Sounds like Apollo and RIF are the big ones. Going to go out with the date that brought me, if baconreader goes down on July 1st, I guess I'll just be forced to become a productive member of society or something. 7 years with bacon reader. I'll get gone. 8 years (on this account) and Apollo as well. I'll still wind up on reddit desktop via Google links, but my daily use/participation days will be over. 99.9% of my redditing is on mobile, and the official app is terrible in comparison. I don't use or like Apollo, and I quite like the official app, but what they're doing is bang out of order. I will take part in the black out and will only engage with the platform once this ridiculous pricing idea has been seriously rethought Apollo user as well and 11 years here. Paid for Apollo Ultra I love it so much. If it goes dark then so do I off Reddit. Apollo user since literally day one, with 10.5 years on Reddit. I don’t give a fuck where I waste my time, but it won’t be here if Apollo gets nerfed. BaconReader user for 8 years here and I share this sentiment. I love Reddit, but I wonder what I'd do with all those hours back every day 🤔 Yeah just hit 11 years a couple months back, all of them using 3rd party apps, this will probably be my stop. Same. Reddit is fine but it's not the only tool that performs this kind of function. Take Apollo away and I'm done. 10 years on Reddit and been using Relay all along but I 200% share the sentiment. I'll reduce my Reddit presence to my moderation duties and that'll be the end of it. I refuse to touch new Reddit or the godawful official app. This was my thought! "I'd sooner stop going on Reddit than use the official app... Wait, that might actually be a good thing for me, I've been on this site way too long" Reddit definitely takes up a lot of my time. Maybe I could read some of the hundreds of books I own instead of getting in arguments on the internet? For me reddit IS BaconReader. I've tried multiple apps and never found something better. I won't even install the official one... I've been spending some of my reddit time with duolingo recently. Maybe giving reddit up entirely will free up more time for that. I'm curious what plans other folks have for the time they'll be given when they quit doom scrolling. 8 years here, also BaconReader. If they U-turn, I'm gone 15 years on Reddit. Who knows how many hours. Came from Digg. Reddit was a breath of fresh air back then. Tons of really intelligent commentary and funny and weird alternative views. I still spend too much time on Reddit in an addictive way, but much of that time is spent scrolling through the tidal waves of idiotic meme garbage to find something real. Better for me if Reddit just dies now. I doubt if I’ll use the official app. For fun, I looked at some old Reddit pages on Archive.org. The average quality of the content was just so much better. Yup. I'm not protesting beyond a comment like this... They're threatening to kill the company and give us our lives back, oh no! 10 year baconreader as well. Looking forward to abandoning reddit actually, I just need this final push. Yep 100% of my browsing is on BaconReader. I've been on reddit for more than a decade too. I'm not on my original account. Same. It'll probably be good for my mental health too. (RIP RiF) Same. I'll just take this as the opportunity it is and stop being addicted to my phone. I might finally actually start writing our my book ideas than scrolling endlessly. I can't adjust to an app that's objectively inferior in every way I don't think it's confirmed but I heard rumors that they are going to remove the NSFW content next. Then Reddit will truly be dead lol Reddit lived long enough to see itself become Digg. It's been confirmed they're removing adult content from the API as well. Gotta stay advertiser and investor friendly. With Imgur banning adult content, it was only a matter of time. Agreed. I think of all the free time I'll have when youtube bans adblockers and reddit kills the third party apps. The only reason I use these platforms is the convenience and ability to tailor to my specific uses. Right? Facebook was a breath of fresh air, I'm starting to feel like reddit will be too. Here we go boys, time to delete another social media account!  Rif was always here when i needed it. Rif will always be in my heart. Fight for rif!! Ove had RIF pro for pike 10 years with no ads, like hell im going to start using their shitty app instead. Seconded Same! I couldn’t imagine Reddit without narwhal. There’s dozen of us! I never hear people talk about Narwhal but it’s the one I started using many years ago and I love it. Done w Reddit if I can’t use it. Narwhal gang! Been using this app since I switched away from Reddit Is Fun when I moved from android to iPhone. The Reddit app is trash I was using narwhal for years! I love the minimalist clean UI. I moved to Apollo only a couple of weeks ago because it supports gifs within comments. The best part of Relay is it feels like old.reddit except with an amoled theme. Relay is the best! I've tried all the android third party reddit apps (RIF, Sync, Boost, Bacon, Joey, RedReader, Slide, Infinity) but I always come back to Relay. It just feels like home. Even the worst third party app is 100% better than the official app. I'm not going to sit at my computer just to browse reddit, so when Relay goes, so do I I also use Relay. I can't stand the site nor the official app. My Reddit i take will probably go down a lot if I can't use Relay And its so easy to share video files through there too with friends on discord instead of a shit link that no one wants to open Same, I've been using rif for the entire 10 years Ive been on Reddit, never once opened it on a computer. I work from home with a few monitors, one for work and one for my rig. I'll just pull my phone out to browse reddit. This submission has been deleted in protest against reddit's API changes (June 2023) that kills 3rd party apps. Screw Twitter and Instagram. Reddit is so much better. Bots do the majority of the lifting around here and shill/corporate advertising accounts. Reddit has its true value in swaying opinions and social engineering rather than corporate profits. This site is a shell of what it used to be and is an internet thought battleground. Anyone thinking this is some innocent social media news site is delusional. Aaron Swartz has been on my mind recently after another user brought him up. Remember him, what he did here, and what he tried to do. Information is power. Opinions and thought is power.  To those who are about to die, we salute you! Just kidding. I started using reddit on the web. It was a great site with a shitty interface and experience, but I realized that there was a lot of good content. Went to official reddit app on mobile. Frustrating, underwhelming and intrusive. And also just plain heavy and sloppy. Tried 3rd party apps. I found Boost to be just what i needed.Was very happy. I don't know if I'll try the official app when this kicks off....too many shitty memories. Oh well, bye reddit. Same here, Reddit can go fuck itself if I can't use Boost or some other alternative to that shit tier official app. Reddit is, by far, the site I frequent the most, but I *will* drop it on the day this bullshit rolls around. Not worth it and massively disrespectful to the users. Yeah dude! I've been using Boost for years. Same Same! The official Reddit app feels trash when compared to Sync Pro anytime. Before sync reddit was just on my PC at home. Probably wouldn't hurt to get back to that, but I do have a lot of small chunks of down time at my job and I'm fairly limited on ways to pass that time because I have to be aware of what's happening, even if not actually engaged in a task. Maybe I'll take up knitting... Right there with ya Sync or nothing Also on Sync Pro. Can't imagine going to the official app after losing something as smooth as Sync ...you do know they are gearing up to sell no? The thing is most people aren't that discerning, the official app has millions more downloads than any of the third party apps, like seriously the numbers are ridiculous. The reality is all the people complaining are a vocal minority, The average user is just here for the memes and doesn't really give a shit about any of this stuff. > when (https://i.redd.it/kwi8aw2w0qq51.png) damn, what a bunch of cunts. Aaron would be so ashamed of these traitors to the ideals they once held so dear Or, hear me out, the 10 billion was a wildly inflated figure that put them under intense pressure to start turning a profit and when investors realized that reposts from TikTok and cat memes are actually really hard to monetize further than just ads and Reddit awards, they sobered up and came up with a figure that more accurately reflects the company’s value. Reddit is not worth $300M. Fidelity, one of its largest investors, stated 2 days ago that its value has fallen 40% since the $10B valuation. That's still $6B. https://www.cnbctv18.com/business/companies/fidelity-reddit-stake-august-2021-investment-twitter-16832591.htm No need to stereotype. There are plenty of venture capitalist Gen X and millennial bitches Reddit is fun reminds me of old school reddit. No dumb avatar pictures, only gold, silver, and platinum awards. And if you browse in thumbnail mode you can turn ads off completely. Youre getting a shitload more ads being on the official app for starters. I use RIF and it's just a cleaner overall experience. I've always used relay for Reddit. It's great, lots of little features that makes navigation and interaction easier and a way better design than the official app This submission has been deleted in protest against reddit's API changes (June 2023) that kills 3rd party apps. Relay is one of the best user interfaces I've ever used, and I admit that I can be obsessively over the top about frustrations with UIs. Without Relay at this point there's no way I could stand being here. Used it for over 7 10 years here I think (under various usernames) Been on BR for 12 years or probably more , old.Reddit since day 1, why change things that work This is the only "social media" I want. Because I don't want social media. I want aggregated "news" and "forums" with anonymous discussions and discourse. If I wanted social media I'd be on Facebook and Twitter. And I sure as fuck don't want to interact with anything that even remotely looks like Facebook or Twitter. Which is what the official reddit app and new reddit is lol. https://i.imgur.com/K1l4w6P.gifv Por que no los dos?  For me it's not so much the content, I can control the content I can see on RIF, it's simple, clean and easy to use. I can get content from all those places you mentioned but I prefer the simple UI. What really blows my mind is that Reddit staff must look at apps like RIF and understand the type of interface people want. But they insist on their horribly designed app that looks like a clone of every other social media website. The Reddit app is also straight-up broken, constantly crashing or returning to the home page. Will never use it unless there is a major redesign. I don't even really know what the official app looks like... I was on a little bit on desktop 10+ years ago then I got a new phone in 2016 and the app didn't work so I got RIF and have been on it since... What's it look? Ads everywhere? Subs you don't want to see shoved down your throat? Same here, been on reddit since right before the Digg migration. I'm done with reddit if they don't adequately address this. RiF is the only reddit app ill use. Its RiF or nothing. Same. My reddit account says its 4 years old, but I've been using RIF for over 10+ years. I'm glad I wasn't the only one who actually likes and uses RIF rather than the official reddit app When your users all either use (a) third party apps or (b) the old design, you have to really wonder wtf is going on with internal leadership Boost has been my main source of reddit for the past 4 years. Started with Rif, moved to Boost when a redditor recommended it. I've probably used old reddit the 3rd most out of all sources, but still less than 5%. I will not be using reddit if third parties disappear Wow, I never really thought about that. Steam deck is here to save you from boring poops Goin on 13 yrs now... exclusively RiF for the majority of those years. I'll probably have to drop reddit I downloaded RIF the same day I made my account. This app has survived three phones and as many moves, and I can't really use Reddit if this is gone. Yeah I've been on reddit since the old days and I put up with the official app for way to long. From what I've heard, I think the app is *somehow* worse. I'm not angry about it really just I like using reddit quite a bit but this will be what makes me quit and that makes me sad Yeah I mean it's not like being here makes me any happier. Honestly this has been a good year of social media reaching thet critical "fuck this shit" mass for me. Twitter is gone, reddit will be gone. Now if only I could get friends and family off messenger. I've been waiting for either this or the death of old.reddit in order to call it quits. Looks like reddit is about to Digg its own grave Get out of my head, Charles!! Yeah I could probably use a break anyway. I already quit Twitter so losing reddit would just be another social app that I don't use. Try moderating on it to get the real shitty experience. It's impossible. That's how software development goes now isn't it, the bugs become features, never get fixed, just add new features with new bugs. Rather than burning good will by attacking the third party apps, they could have worked with some of those devs to make an official app that was better. But nope, gotta try to force everyone to use their significantly worse app. I switched to Apollo when an official app update causes my phone to burn battery and get *hot* while scrolling. This was a new iPhone 12 Pro Max just a month or two after the phone launched in late 2020 or early 2021. They didn’t acknowledge or fix it for the several updates I checked after that happened. They can’t even open the app and test it for 5 minutes on Apple’s latest flagship phone? Fuck that. Apollo has been flawless and the features are just a bonus. I’m not going back to an app that’s so buggy poorly supported that it could literally damage my phone after any update. Yeah that's pretty much how it is for me too. I share with my wife a lot of the things I find on reddit. Got her interested enough she wanted it on her phone. She downloaded the official app and after using it twice she came to me wondering why the fuck I even like this site! Fuck the official app, it's literally dog shit I'm the same way except I use boost Yeah, it would probably do me some good Yeah I like Reddit and would like to keep browsing but I just won't be able to and it makes me sad Just be an ad delivery system This individual explains perfectly on why 3rd party apps are better. https://www.reddit.com/r/BikiniBottomTwitter/comments/13xk3lu/they_have_to_pay_reddit_20_million_per_year_to/jmj3nfg/ One thing that drives me nuts is the collapsing of comments when you have your finger on it for even just a half second. If I'm reading a comment, and especially if it's a large comment and scrolling down, it'll frequently collapse it. It can be difficult to find the comment I was reading in the first place if it was very long or surrounded by many other parent comments. I have to be mindful of how long I have my finger pressed when I'm scrolling through comments and that's really obnoxious. Scrolling through the feed eats incredible amounts of data. I believe they fucked it up deliberately so that every second you watch a headline counts as 100 views or something. (I didn't have autoplay activated) Moderation is impossible. Videos and gifs don't load. You reply to one user but it often gets sent to another commenter above. Submissions often get stuck in an upload loop and will never be done. That's what I gathered from about 2 hours of usage over the years. I only ever had it installed for gifting awards. Also, my AdBlock blocks about 500 elements and trackers a minute. It plays the sounds of random videos when you're in a completely different thread. (haven't experienced this myself but heard often) too many horizontal lines, wasted space, large buttons, poor feed experience with too many ads and suggestions, poor controls and options, too much energy wasted swiping and attempting to read through oversized icons and cut off comments  The information density is about the same as I'd expect from a Fisher Price Kid's First Tablet The days of 1024x768 are long gone, so why have a UI that looks like it's designed for it? Reddit is good because of the users and despite reddit itself It was all of those little bugs and glitches that got me... That and the ads Think I'll bring Myspace back I do think it's about the app being bad as well as what you said. Like myself and others have said, why is reddit app like a shitty part time programmer wrote it while Boost, RiF, Apollo, etc are all polished(for the most part, none are perfect)? Reddit just doesn't care about us I like the content style and atmosphere of reddit. All this time we've all had our choice. Old reddit or new, official app or whichever 3rd party. I decided I like Boost more than RiF and mobile over desktop. I'm pretty sure old reddit will be going away in the near future too. I know reddit doesn't owe me a thing, I'm not making them any money so my opinion doesn't matter to them but I've still been an active and engaged user for a decade or more. It's just a dick move that's going to drive me away. Alien Blue was my favorite. Worked sooooo well Pour one out for alien blue! was a great app Same. Hey u/spez you’re getting roasted for making terrible decisions get in here Sounds like you made a case to abandon Reddit regardless. A lot of people will find out how addicted they are when they try to quit. I'm actually looking forward to it now. Over a decade on this site and I'm imagining how refreshing this change will be, with a concrete start date and everything. Ditto! They are removing NSFW content from 3rd party API calls on July 1st. What's next? Mastodon? This was my thought as well. Came here after the digg crash. Looking for my new alternative now. The content is still hosted and as far as I understand it will still be available in the official app. It is just another way to force you to migrate. Or maybe it is to prevent amateur porn harvesting. Modding and modding well are two very different things. I don't think you can suddenly replace huge numbers of mods with users who have no idea what they're doing without killing a lot of subreddits. Right, but if mods can’t use mod tools to eradicate spammers, it will die like DIGG. That is a horrible solution. Now, good mods that will keep communities alive? That's a different story. Didn't really use Reddit on PC and didn't like the interface. Then at some point about 10 years ago a friend introduced to RIF. Still stuck here lol. Well in a month I don't need to use Reddit anymore. I don't even have friends on reddit or anything so I'm absolutely free to leave. Just here for shits and giggles and some specific communities. RIFGP for like 10+ years. It's all I've ever used. Reddit still looks like the official reddit from 10 years ago. I will for sure never use reddit again if they do this. Third Narwhal user checking in to say, I’m out if they kill it. That's exactly why I've been using Relay for a decade. Without Relay and old.reddit, Reddit is just an ugly wasteland. Every time I go to the website through the browser, I'm reminded of why I love Sync for Reddit. This is what I'll miss most - I only really use reddit for the handful of communities that I can easily find and be in. There's shows I like to watch that I can talk to people about even when nobody around me wants to. There's places where I can see artists post their work and get inspired to do the same, learning from them with genuine interactions rather than force fed 60 second tutorials. There's so much I enjoyed about the communities on reddit, and it was never because of reddit itself - it's just the aggregator. It sucks that I might not get to be a part of that anymore, but I only enjoy using it as a forum and if RIF can't continue, I'm out. You just introduced me to a hell of a sub in /r/imaginarysliceoflife, may be gone soon but thank you I know what you mean. I've learned so much over the years from communities like those. But you know what? Those resources will still exist and if I need them in the future, I'll go as a lurker through Google. Thank you Reddit for hosting so much good content and thanks so the users and third-party apps that kept it good. So long and thanks for all the shit(posts).  To IPO, but yes The average user also doesn't know any better. I'm sure a majority of Reddit's active users have jumped on since they did the whole redesign, so the newer people don't know what they were missing out on with old reddit. Then when you go to the mobile app, first instinct is to look for an official app of something. If an official app exists, more times than not, it's better than the 3rd party options. Except with Reddit it's the complete opposite. But it looks similar to the "new" design that the newer users have become used to, so they roll with it. We need a user owned “Reddit” where we put profits back into communities, or something similar idk. I'm not super familiar with the topic but I'd gather that one of the largest investors would have an interest in maintaining a higher valuation.  It blew my mind when I realized reddit has avatars. When did that even start? I think I realized a couple of months ago somehow, when I saw someone comment "I like your avatar" to someone else. I was like, wtf? So I googled it and found out. Seems extremely cringe and irrelevant. I've been using reddit for 15 years and I don't even know what the goddamn site looks like. Really illustrates how "reddit" isn't actually reddit without RIF, Apollo, etc. The decision makers are ungrateful morons, these third party apps have been literally *paying reddit* for years to *run their business properly for them.* This entire situation only gets more bizarre the more you think about it. **I will not use Reddit without RIF.** There's just no way in hell. The communities will find new places to exist, just like they have many times before. It's sad, but that's the way it goes. I paid narwhal a dollar and now I have no ads. I’ve been using this app pretty much my entire time on Reddit. I've tried all the apps over 13 years of various accounts. Relay is lightweight, fast, and as you say has lots of little features which makes it the best. For me anyway. Meaningful discussion on reddit went extinct years ago Remember when they accidentally revealed that the “city” that “uses reddit the most” was actually a military base? 😂 Love it or hate it, there is a razor thin orthodoxy of thoughts and beliefs that are acceptable on reddit these days. Some take comfort in knowing that they won’t be exposed to a variety of ideas and views. For them this has surely been a relief and a welcome change. I happen to prefer the way it used to be, even if it meant I would have to read the occasional stupid or even offensive idea. It's because their focus is growth, not user retention. They are betting you won't leave, and looking more like other social media will lower the threshold to make more join. Infinite growth, destroying everything. Way back when there was a *very* popular ios app called Alien Blue. That app was bought by reddit and somehow turned into the official app. I have no idea how alien blue turned into.. that. Even if it did work, give us some options. If it ran perfectly, I would still prefer Apollo Same, used desktop for years, then went to Bacon Reader and eventually Sync Pro. Been on Reddit since 2012. at least we'll all go down together, old-timers ✊👴 Remember when it was Reddit is Fun? And then RIF is Fun for Reddit? I have used Reddit Is Fun for years. I will be very sad to see it go, if this does go ahead I've never used the official app. It's RIF on mobile and old reddit (with Stylebot) on desktop. I see none of the ads people keep mentioning like that Jesus thing and never have in the 14 years I've been here. Reddit will fall apart fast if the apps are banned. It is not just that the official app sucks, it is also that the modverse will collapse and consequently all the subs will be overrun with spam and nasty racism, misogyny and general idiocy, far more than they are now. And not just the obvious targets like politics and aww but the niche hobby subs as well. As an insomniac of long standing, I report crap all the time that makes its way to the gardening and art subs in the wee hours. It will be nothing but that crap if reddit proceeds with this site killing move. People will make money at the IPO and cash out before the inevitable collapse so proceed they will. I'm in the same boat. Came here for this. Reddit is no fun without it. I've been a RIF user for 10+ years. Since my Galaxy S2. I can't imagine reddit without RIF Bro same I was introduced to it before an official app was even in service. It's a joke and they should be paying those companies to make their app, not charge them and pay bad devs and waste more money on a shit app Yeah rif is all I've ever used for the past 12ish years now. Not about to change that so the greedy corporate guys can make a few more bucks off a website where they don't even have to provide the content. I just need a little push.. There’s so much tracking, ads and other telemetry baked in that makes me never want to use it besides just the different layout. What they’re doing to third party developers and the general direction Reddit has taken as well has made this the straw that broke the camels back to me. This is my second account but I’ve been on Reddit for over a decade and it’s just not the same anymore. I stopped using the official app years ago when it started mixing DM and comment reply notifications with "trending now" notifications. Who gives a damn that a new post is on the front page? You give me push notifications for that, you get uninstalled immediately. (https://i.imgur.com/TpwnR5A.png) Is my top posts record. (https://i.imgur.com/WyW2aiu.png) is a comment thread. It's just a cleaner interface. Reddit doesn't like that I have never seen a Pete Davidson Taco Bell ad, or a HeGetsUs ad. I still see all the astfroturf posts disguised as not ads though. But no profile pics, no live dude playing guitar. But on Reddit's side, I paid like $3 four years ago to block every ad since. Same. My ten year account got perma-banned last month because I reported post on /r/whitepeopletwitter as misinformation. I'm looking for reddit to help me ween it from itself. Here here I quit / completely deleted Facebook a couple of weeks ago. Never been happier. I moved to reddit when digg changed and I'll move again. When you think you know better than your user base, you lose your userbase. Hey, let me know where the next exodus meetup is at. I won't stay without old.reddit either. It blows my mind how these third party app developers with shoestring budgets can understand UX so well, but the official Reddit staff just fucks it up They *bought* their official app's startingpoint from a 3rd party dev (Alienblue, it was amazing 😞), killed it, defiled it, then reanimated its rotting corpse into the abomination they have now. They had the opportunity to do what you're saying, and didn't. I have absolutely no doubt that if what you're talking about happened, it would be no different than the first time. Same for my partner, then introduced him to RiF 🥲 It's not much more than that now Wow. That is atrocious. I never realized how fortunate I am to use RIF. Half of the actual app is filled with noise. It's not even pleasing to look at. "How can we cram more potential for us to narrow a users preferences and charge more for advertising?" Seems to be their only concern. I can understand that a business needs money to survive, but a strong loyal user base is essential for them to even make this money in the first place. They should be asking why users prefer to use other apps. What a shame. Short-sighted policies for instant statistical wins seem to be the hot trend. More and more it seems like companies are favoring their data more than common sense. This describes it pretty well Didn’t even mention the stupid nft monetization. Thats the worst part. I don’t give a fuck about stickers, trophies, and avatars. Just let me pay a monthly fee so don’t have to see that ugly garbage. After looking at this comparison, it's very clear why Reddit is killing third party apps. Greed. They can't make 50% of the screen consist of ads on third party apps. But they can when they force everyone to use their app. It's that simple. And it's fucking disgusting. >Scrolling through the feed eats incredible amounts of data. This is the exact reason I switched to RIF; I'm not switching back. I'll probably still be using old.reddit on my PC, but once that's gone, so am I. >But can it display posts in a list view and not already opened and gigantic? Nope, and this is exactly why I use Relay when I'm using my Android and Apollo when I'm using my iPhone. I've always used the "list" view in any Reddit app specifically because I can't stand the photos or videos being **huge** and taking up so much space. Add me to the list of people who will dump Reddit altogether rather than use their shitty app if they go through with this decision. >I'm pretty sure old reddit will be going away in the near future too. Being said, when they pushed the "new" or now regular version of the site through some years back i figure they noticed that a good third to a half of users were going to abandon the site so they kept the old version around. Why the negative response by the users? Because both the main app, and the "new" version of the site are clumsy, unusable trash. I don't think that bit of math has changed, and now they are doubling down on the worst aspects of the most dysfunctional bullshit of the same with their app related drama. I'm sure they have some marketing executive there going on about how the users will adapt as they have no choice etc... but that is the type of delusional bullshit we see behind a ton of other declining, and failed enterprise going way back. Like with "cord cutting" where we have 20 something years of increasing decline of cable TV viewership because of shit quality contents, and excessive advertisements... what do they do in response to the issue? Double down on the very shit that drives people away. not to even mention what has occurred with streaming services, and them trying to go with the Cable TV model of operation. > I know reddit doesn't owe me a thing, I'm not making them any money so my opinion doesn't matter to them but I've still been an active and engaged user for a decade or more. Yup, and to be said we do not "Owe" Reddit anything either... i mean, we provide the contents, and they provide the platform for it to profit from adverts, and our engagement driving efforts in the middle. It is an exchange. > It's just a dick move that's going to drive me away. Same with probably a good 30% of the broader user population... or at the very least their "engagement" figured will see a decline towards that level. I'm sure many will keep accounts around for hobby sub purposes, but then not bother with broader site use past the niche needs. Kind of like many keeping Facebook around solely for family contacts, but never logging on. Narwhal is my jam. If it’s gone then I’m done too. Just have to figure out what place will aggregate my news like this. and then reddit bought it just to somehow turn it into the shit tier app they rolled out Narwhal is a great alternative to Alien Blue. Bought and fucked into obscurity by reddit. No he didn't, how else are we supposed to have pointless arguments without reddit? Book clubs frown on it. Then it’ll be banned around the time they IPO. LMAO, whose going to invest in a dead app... GG reddit it was fun. So they are removing it from Reddit, because everyone here is using the third party API. Lemmy Don't worry, a lot of mods are power hungry and terrible. Not here though, this sub is great Especially since those new mods will have the same problem as the old mods: the shitty first party tools available for modding. Killing subreddit integrity is the biggest issue imo. I used to mod a large sub and integrity was incredibly sensitive to change by alternative/newer moderators with different intentions. Admins don't really step in so integrity can change very easily when alternative/newer mods take charge of direction.  This submission has been deleted in protest against reddit's API changes (June 2023) that kills 3rd party apps. Reddit leadership: “how do we absolutely tank our IPO value!?”, “hold my beer” A huge number of contributors are likely third party app users. The latest wave of users don't seem to comment or post much from what I've seen over the years. This move will leave only the low effort TikTok reposts and will decimate communities. I started on the official app a year or so ago and it’s all I’ve used. Genuine question- what am I missing with the 3rd party versions? You’re welcome to be the latest to try. Check out lemmy Maybe so but the idea that they are worth 300 million (an absurd 97% drop in value if the $10bn figure was ever accurate) is completely off the table given that they generated over $400m last year in revenue. That blows my mind when I actually go to Reddit vs old.reddit. These dumb fuckers are gonna do a digg.com Yea, seeing people mention other people's avatars or pictures with all the emojis in conversations made me feel like a West World host, "that doesn't look like anything to me" Yeah and I think you can even spend real money to customize them or something lmao I'm surprised I never see anyone mention it! It's always rif or Apollo for the most part. I'm too used to the swipe navigation and comment interaction on relay at this point I can never go back I'm here for meaningful discussion about my fandoms and sports. And I can assure you that meaningful discussion has not died in either (at least to the extent that it ever existed when it comes to sports.) Man, I just have to comment on this. My three top subs are 1) my pro BBall team sub 2) my vehicle owners group sub and 3) Ukrainian war sub. The last is a bit of a mess but still gives me good information, while the other two are a valuable source of information and and outlets for dynamic exchanges of ideas and opinions on very narrow subjects. I just don’t understand their aim when growth is *necessarily based on retention*, like… you won’t grow if you don’t keep people. That’s how growth works It didn’t. They wrote their own app, then bought and killed the Alien Blue app. Then claimed that the official app was based on Alien Blue to try and get the user base to switch to it. It didn’t. They wrote their own app, then bought and killed the Alien Blue app. Then claimed that the official app was based on Alien Blue to try and get the user base to switch to it. Greed RIF is how I access reddit about 99.9% of the time, and has been that way for at least 6 years. If this goes through, I'm absolutely done with reddit. When I heard the announcement, I tried using the official app to see how it is, and it's absolutely trash. Unintuitive navigation, egregious ads and promoted content, very little customization options. I think just about the only thing it has going for it is how easy it is to switch between accounts. But even that is only slightly better, and very low on my priority list. Yeah, they had to change the name to RIF because Reddit got mad they were using "Reddit" in their primary app name. Now it's $20m time.... Seriously! I don't remember how long I've been using RIF, but it's been at least since before the name change. I'll watch college football and be commenting in the game threads over on r/cfb. I'll browse at work on my break (lol right) on my phone so I never need to log into my work PC to comment. A huge portion of my usage is now from my phone because the UI of RIF is everything I want and nothing I don't. I use old.reddit on my PC because the new UI is 1) trash and 2) unstable! If reddit was run by people with more than two braincells to rub together, they would offer a system where you can profit share their ads with your app. Someone views an ad via your app, and you receive a % of the payout, but you're locked out of having your *own* ads. Bam. Problem solved. But no, they want to make sure their stock values are as high as possible so they can get out. The website will become another ad delivery service, and five years from now we'll be on skedge.roflmao wading through posts: **"What Caused Reddits Downfall?"** > Hey guys, I'm 16 and I remember that Reddit used to be a really popular site, like what actually happened to it? Same. RIF is just beautiful compared to that clunk of official horseshit app. I tried the other apps but reddit is fun is the cleanest I've ever used. It's as simple and fast as you can get. Beyond ethical/privacy concerns, the UI and reliability of anything "Official Reddit" is pure shit. There is, soo much tracking data. Its as bad as Google for that. Same reason why I use use Brave browser, to avoid the awful ads and tracking. I popped on using the official app for the first time in years and i already have 7 spam bot follower requests. I didnt even post anything. This is why I never cut Reddit when I cut Facebook, Twitter, and other social media. Third-party apps protect you from all that. I really like knowing Reddit is not all up in my phone like all the other tech companies. If they break BaconReader, I am not trying something else, I just won't use it on my phone anymore....which is 99% of my Reddit usage. Just checked my account and by god… 7months away from a decade on Reddit. It’s honestly a shame I won’t make it to the big 10 if this goes through My third party app only pushes comment replies and DMs... Because that's how I set it up. Exactly why the f*** would I want to know what's trending now the whole point is for me to customize what comes in front of my eyes Which app is that? Sorry if I missed it somewhere Yeah I've been permabanned from a number of subs that I liked and enjoyed. Most of them didn't even tell me what the issue was. It was just weird because it was just bam bam bam hear, hear, even. Don't go back. I ditched it a few years ago and every year is better than the one before. It truly is a cancer. Tbh, I don't think it's official app developers fault (at least not entirely), they have to cater to the dumb decisions of Reddit's upper management. You can hire the most talented developers, but it doesn't mean jackshit if the company doesn't value their input. I enjoy playing video games. And they gave every premium account 4 YEARS of reddit gold. They did so much shit just to make a terrible app, and they're doing it again. It’s actually what I do use now :) We'll have to start our own book clubs. Where pissing is encouraged. Behind the library? By the dumpster? Drug subs, too. I'm on Lemmy since a couple of days ago, and I'm really enjoying my time there. What makes lemmy better than mastodon? Lemmy is too sanitized. I'll be taking a break from it all in general. Maybe if an actual alternative pops up, I'll look into it. I agree, but isn't that an inherent human flaw rather than a Reddit exclusive issue? It's not so much "what's missing" necessarily, it has more to do with the design of the apps and each company's intention with the designs. New Reddit and its official app is basically designed to serve you ads and promoted content. Many of the ads are disguised as actual posts that are hard to distinguish as ads, and they also force "promoted" content into your feeds. When I'm browsing r/baseball, I don't want to see promoted r/NBA content. If I wanted to view r/NBA, I'd go there. The 3rd party apps have very few ads, and if they do, they are easily distinguishable. They don't force "promoted" content you don't want to see. On top of that, the new reddit cuts off the comments to promote additional additional "posts you may like", which makes it harder to continue to follow comment chains and conversations. The official Reddit app also makes terrible use of UI space. You might at one given time, see 5 - 7 posts on your phone, of which you usually have a giant ad taking up space. Many 3rd party apps allow you to see 10+ posts at a time, nice and condensed, easy to distinguish. But probably the biggest thing is, the 3rd party apps generally are just *faster*. New Reddit and their official mobile app are slow, clunky, use up waaaay more data than is necessary, and has video player issues. Many of the 3rd party apps don't have this issue, use way less data, and are quite fast in comparison. At the end of the day, yeah, the official app technically works and it will serve you content. But for millions who use the 3rd party apps, trying to switch to the official app is such a step backwards that they would rather leave Reddit altogether. TLDR: Basically, the official app is really designed to serve you ads and get you clicking on more posts rather than engaging in discussion. The more posts they can get you to see, the more ads they can serve you and the more money they make. 3rd party apps are designed to serve you the content you want to see and be a better source for the discussion aspect. They run faster and don't try to disguise ads, and basically have user experience in mind rather than ad profit. When I accidentally navigate to new.reddit I want to vomit. Who the fuck did they pay to design it? Relay is, IMO, the pinnacle of Reddit apps Seriously. The "swipe to do everything interface" is so good. No other reddit app even comes *close* to Relay. They are gambling on people being all talk about leaving reddit. They think the true number is miniscule compared to the number of users they can gain by looking more like other social media platforms. Not to mention, the official app is *awful* for videos. Back when I was still using it half the time videos simply wouldn't load. Switched to RIF, videos load fine and haven't looked back. If RIF gets axed I'm done with Reddit. I just checked, and I purchased the premium version of the app over 11 years ago and have been using it continuously ever since. I don't typically want to be a crotchety old person griping about change, but when you're being asked to step out of your jacuzzi and to kindly have a seat in a leech-infested bog, it's easy to complain. RIF is so clean and compact. I was testing out the official app and it's so damn cluttered. They manage to use up my entire screen for 1 or 2 posts when browsing even on the classic layout. Also the comments can fit like 3 on screen at a time. There's just so much stuff I don't care about. I use Bacon Reader and love it. When Im on my PC it's old.reddit. If they take these away then like many others Im out. I have no desire to put up with the crap that is the official Reddit app or the new page. It's absolutely absurd, and illogical, that they wouldnt, at the very least, reach out to the community in order to make their app more user friendly. They want more money, yet want to do the complete opposite of what would reach that goal. They're just going to go and "Musk it up". Reddit didn't get mad. It was Google themselves that banned apps using the name of other apps unless both apps were run by the same company. And it always has been! They even tried to fix it and made it *worse*. And their app is a steaming pile of crap that refused to acknowledge the existence of popular, successful reddit apps, and just duplicated the horrible web experience in an app wrapper. Firefox all the way. It might be the only browser left that isn't based on chrome and it's a non profit. And since Microsoft finally fixed a memory leak, it works smooth even for low range machines. That's where all mine came from! I wanted to test it to make sure it was still as shitty as I remember before bitching about it, and got spammed with bot follow notifications. As it should be! The official app made it so those notifications were all or nothing, at least back then. Been using RIF and Boost ever since Relay It's android. Not sure if there's an ios version. (https://i.imgur.com/7uvrS8F.png) is my main feed. It has an option for left or right-handed thumbnails. You didn't. The commenter didnt specify Some subs will ban you for commenting or posting in other subs that they don't like. Once the 3^rd party apps are gone, it won’t be long before they come for old reddit Porn and cannabis growing tips are like 80% of the reason I'm here! Mastodon is more like Twitter than Reddit Yeah like the other guy said, Lemmy is more like Reddit than mastodon is. But as I understand it they’re both built on the ActivityPub protocol so technically Mastodon and Lemmy users can interact with each other What do you mean by too sanitized? That’s definitely a fair point. But I personally have no problem dropping Reddit like a sack of moldy assholes if it continues acting like a sack of moldy assholes And they're probably right, unfortunately. Sigh They should check in on my other social media activity to see how serious I am. Reddit is the last social platform I use for a multitude of reasons. What's sad is that for every post on here you see descend into typical internet garbage (and there's plenty) this place is actually host to a wealth of people who are knowledgeable about any number of topics and is far more helpful than other places because people get fact checked on the spot and usually sources are cited for serious discussions. It feels like the last bastion of good faith internet community dying even if you have to seek out the topics. I deleted RIF from my phone because I was spending too much time arguing with people then checking for responses. I reached for it by muscle memory but then realized I was fine not looking at it. Now I'm using it on desktop, still a bit too much, but only because old.reddit exists. Even if I'm at work or on another computer and search for a reddit result, I change the URL immediately to "old" because the default UI is so horrible and "LOOK HERE, ENGAGE HERE, LOOK OTHER THREADS" while *hiding the comments of the thread I'm on*. Like others who say they'll leave if RIF dies, I will absolutely leave if "old" dies. >They are gambling on people being all talk about leaving reddit. Watch me. 1st July will be the last time I'll be here when RIF goes. Even their website is trash for loading videos. I tried to switch to the new reddit for a month and returned to old reddit. It's just nicer for everything. I didn't even know there *was* a premium app, and I always buy those upgrades if I use the app a lot. The free version is just that good. (I bought premium when this news broke, to show support.) >just duplicated the horrible web experience in an app wrapper. What truly makes it shitty. Might as well give the option for old.reddit in there too but I'm guessing that'll die soon too and some desktop users are going to walk away with it. Aye, main reason why I use Firefox. I use both Brave and Firefox. I tried switching to Firefox as my default browser, but the reason I switched back is so small and simple it is stupid - I hate DarkReader. On Brave, Deluminate gives more or less all websites a true black background, as well as simple but powerful controls if a website does not render correctly. DarkReader honestly has better compatibility with websites, but there is little recourse when a site does not render correctly and, more importantly, it looks like shit on OLEDs because the background is some dark blue instead of true black. Mm app comments looked great, but that feed puts me off. Are there options to minimize the feed? (https://imgur.com/a/ZKXGuta) Apologies. It's Relay. I use it on android, dunno if it's for ios as well. (https://i.imgur.com/RMETlN3.png) Yeah that's some bullshit Removing porn reposts is one thing, but imagine not being able to search for drug information from any former reddit sub. They're going to erase multiple libraries worth of human knowledge and experience. Been waiting for the last push, this will definitely be it for me. Probably should nuke all my posts and comments too before those services no longer work as well. Me neither. I would be interested in seeing stats on Twitter's usage over the past year. I would hope the numbers support the anecdotes of people who say they left. Reddit is a company that hasn't bothered to build a working search engine in over a decade. I'm sad to have to leave but I'm not sad to see this website slowly die. I was gonna say. Their image and video hosting is trash across the board. But video is far worse, for sure. Old Reddit (at least to me) is not as smooth as old Reddit actually was. If they get rid of old reddit then I am well and truly gone. I mostly access the site via PC so the 3rd party app situation, though shit, wasn't going to affect me too much. Make me use new reddit though? Yeah, we're done. I seriously can't stand Firefox. I honestly think privacy is more baked into Brave than even Firefox, anyway. Don't think so. But I'm old and like the larger print. I used RiF and Baconreader before the official app existded. I tried that too, I just like Relay. Looks like RiF has gotten better since I last checked it out around 6 years ago though.  It's kind of insane. They're realizing the dataset has value, but perfectly willing to snip away huge valuable chunks. Nobody wants to pay for ads on nsfw reddit subs? I know some of the are huge. Surely this data is backed up beyond reddit servers  I haven't used it on desktop in so long I wouldn't know anymore but I'd believe it. Gotta push to the new reddit somehow.  That amount was probably most of the real users. The rest are just bots and the accounts that pay those bots to follow them.